<B_CHAMBER>

<Q_CHM_A_1597_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_001> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,29>

{ED:1._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_June_11,_1597.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goode Master Carleton , I know you lookt longe ere this time to have
heard from me , CHAMBER,I,29.001.1

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so might you well have don , yf Painter the post had not kept your
letter of the eight of May aseasoninge till the sixt of this present
June . CHAMBER,I,29.001.2

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I received a litle billet before , by your sister Williams , in the way
of an interim till you had better leasure , CHAMBER,I,29.001.3

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but presently upon yt went to Askot where I met with your brother
Carleton <paren> comming from the buriall of your uncle Goodwin ,
</paren> who told me Tobie Mathew had shewed him a letter from you
wherin you complained much of want , and what narrow straights you were
like to be driven to , marvayling you had toucht no such matter in your
letters to him : CHAMBER,I,29.001.4

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therewithall began to dilate to me what he had don and could do for
you , CHAMBER,I,29.001.5

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the conclusion was that his abilitie is not to supplie all wants ,
CHAMBER,I,29.001.6

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore you must trust to yourself and make your owne fortune .
CHAMBER,I,29.001.7

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I replied litle to yt but only in generall termes , the rather because
I hope yt is but a borrowed complaint to distast younge Mathew from
following you into Fraunce , then for any true cause .
CHAMBER,I,29.001.8

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am exceding glad to heare how well you are entertained by my Lord
Ambassador : of whom I presumed no lesse , CHAMBER,I,29.001.9

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for though I alwayes knewe him to be paucorum hominem , yet he hath
ever shewed himself an honorable fast frend where he found vertue and
desert . CHAMBER,I,29.001.10

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Evers is in Ireland with the Lord Borrough between whom and Sir
John Norris there is lately a solemne pacification made with <P_I,30>
much counterfet kindenes on both sides . CHAMBER,I,30.001.11

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The old Deputie is come home very fat they say both-1 in body and purse
, having made a luckie conclusion of his government with the overthrow
and death of Feffe Mackhugh an auncient and troublesom rebell : upon
which service he made three knightes at his comming away , viz.
Calistenes Brooke , Thomas Maria Wingfeld , and one Trevire a Welchman
. CHAMBER,I,30.001.12

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Norris lady was lately brought abed there of three daughters
, which the Lord Norris imputes to the fertilitie of the soyle ,
CHAMBER,I,30.001.13

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and exemplifies yt by a mare he sent two yeares ago to his sonne Thomas
that brought two foales . CHAMBER,I,30.001.14

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have great preparation here for a sea viage , which troubles our
discoursers how or where yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} imployed :
CHAMBER,I,30.001.15

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the common sort talke of Callais , others of the ylands of Tercera ,
CHAMBER,I,30.001.16

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the most likelie in mine opinion , is to set upon the King of
Spaines navie whersoever they can finde yt , or to meet with the Indian
fleet . CHAMBER,I,30.001.17

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Theyre whole number consists of fifteen of the Quenes shippes , besides
the two Spanish shippes that were taken the last yeare , <paren> which
be new fashioned after the English manner </paren> , and of two and
twentie men of warre of Holland , and some fowre and twentie flieboats
and hoyes that serve for cariage of men and vitayles .
CHAMBER,I,30.001.18

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They have with them prest men , and muskettiers that come with Sir Fra:
Vere out of the Low Countries : CHAMBER,I,30.001.19

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the voluntaries are thought will rise towardes . CHAMBER,I,30.001.20

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The erle of Essex is generall both-1 at sea and land , the Lord Thomas
Viceadmirall , Sir <P_I,31> Walter Raleigh rereadmirall , who is newly
restored to the executing his place in court of captaine of the garde .
CHAMBER,I,31.001.21

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The erle of Southampton , the Lord Mountjoy and the Lord Rich go as
adventurers , though some say the Lord Mountjoy is to be
lieutenant-generall at land . CHAMBER,I,31.001.22

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The erle of Darbie , the Lord Gray , the Lords Windsor and Compton
pretend likewise to go CHAMBER,I,31.001.23

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is thought shall not get leave : CHAMBER,I,31.001.24

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the provisions are hastened on very fast CHAMBER,I,31.001.25

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is sayde the erle of Essex takes his leave at court on Sonday
next the 12=th= of this present and hopes to be gon within ten dayes
after . CHAMBER,I,31.001.26

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The presse of gentlemen $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} very great ,
CHAMBER,I,31.001.27

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I will not stand to set downe any but one or two of your
acquaintaunce , that is your cousin Mighell Dormer whom I can by no
meanes yet disswade , and Hugh Beston that stands to be Treasurer of
the jorny though I doubt he shall not be troubled with much receit ,
CHAMBER,I,31.001.28

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I am half of our Doctors opinion that warrants him yf he have yt ,
that a well sadled rat may cary all his accompts . CHAMBER,I,31.001.29

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But his true errand is to be knighted assone or before Sir Peter Evers
, CHAMBER,I,31.001.30

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither doth he dissemble yt greatly to his frends CHAMBER,I,31.001.31

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but sayes merelie he hath ben a scabd squire a great while , and could
now be content to be a paltrie knight the rest of his time .
CHAMBER,I,31.001.32

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John North died here on Sonday last , CHAMBER,I,31.001.33

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is thought to have left his lady but a meane widowe .
CHAMBER,I,31.001.34

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Wroughton went likewise much about the same time , and old
Duns when I was in Oxfordshire . CHAMBER,I,31.001.35

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Payton is lately made lieutenant of the Towre ,
CHAMBER,I,31.001.36

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir Henry Cocke either is or upon the point to be sworne Coferer of
the Quenes houshold . CHAMBER,I,31.001.37

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Phillip Scudamore is very forward and like to have Mistris Lovell the
last Coferers widow , to the great dislike of <P_I,32> some of his best
frends . CHAMBER,I,32.001.38

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And your Lady Umpton is in parlee with Master George Sherly of
Northampton or Lecestershire . CHAMBER,I,32.001.39

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This term here was one Longe a captaine of Somersetshire condemned in
the Starchamber in markes and to stand on the pillorie for chopping and
making portsale of his souldiers . CHAMBER,I,32.001.40

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have here a new play of humors in very great request ,
CHAMBER,I,32.001.41

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I was drawn alonge to yt by the common applause ,
CHAMBER,I,32.001.42

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but my opinion of yt is <paren> as the fellow sayde of the shearing of
hogges </paren> that there was a great crie for so litle wolle .
CHAMBER,I,32.001.43

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is all I can bethincke me of for the present CHAMBER,I,32.001.44

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither can you chuse but be reasonablie satisfied ,
CHAMBER,I,32.001.45

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for what you want in waight you have in measure . CHAMBER,I,32.001.46

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet is the greatest newes behinde that I am upon a viage into Ireland
with Master Wallop , who with his wife , her mother , and your cousen
Lytton have so earnestly intreated me , that partly at theyre request
and partly being weary of ydlenes I have yeelded , and hope to be
setting forward within this moneth and to be here againe before
Bartlemewtide . CHAMBER,I,32.001.47

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You be like enough to heare of me before I go yf here be ought worth
writing . CHAMBER,I,32.001.48

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your sister Alice is close prisoner at her ladies ; CHAMBER,I,32.001.49

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the rest of your frends are in state as you left them
CHAMBER,I,32.001.50

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so wishing you all health and goode hap I bid you farewell .
CHAMBER,I,32.001.51

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this longest day of 1597 . CHAMBER,I,32.001.52

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,32.001.53

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:43
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:24
LETTER:CHAMBER_001:E2:1597:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my assured good frend Master Dudley Carleton attendaunt on the Lord
Ambassador for her Majestie at Paris . CHAMBER,I,32.001.54

<Q_CHM_A_1598_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_002> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,55>

{ED:12._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_December_8,_1598.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goode Master Carleton , I wrote by the post of Sandwich
CHAMBER,I,55.002.55

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what meanes yt made to get over I know not . CHAMBER,I,55.002.56

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your skipper brought me yours of the 25 of the last , for the which I
thancke you , but specially for the translated letter so full of
perticulers which are mon gibier . CHAMBER,I,55.002.57

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This winter weather affoordes no great novelties CHAMBER,I,55.002.58

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only we talke of provisions for Ireland , CHAMBER,I,55.002.59

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the whole plot is so uncertain and unsetled that I feare we shall
only talke yt out . CHAMBER,I,55.002.60

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rebells grow dayly both-1 in hart and strength CHAMBER,I,55.002.61

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and <paren> which is worst </paren> the great ones of that countrie and
those that have ben alwayes thought soundest use the matter so , that
they be not out of suspicion : CHAMBER,I,55.002.62

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for neither do they any service themselves CHAMBER,I,55.002.63

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor assist those that wold do yt , as in a case of apparant advantage
yt happened to Sir Tho: Norris to be hindered by those that are put
most in trust . CHAMBER,I,55.002.64

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Essex jorny thether is neither fast nor loose
CHAMBER,I,55.002.65

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but holdes still in suspence by reason the proportions thought fit for
such an enterprise are dayly clipt and deminished , CHAMBER,I,55.002.66

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yt was first set downe that his number <paren> with those that be
there alredy </paren> shold be and so to be continued from time to time
, with full allowaunce of vitayle , mony , and other things aunswerable
; CHAMBER,I,55.002.67

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but whether they thincke the matter may be compassed with lesse charge
or that we be not able to beare such a burthen , these rates are
brought lower , wherewith he is nothing pleased , CHAMBER,I,55.002.68

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on these termes yt standes . CHAMBER,I,55.002.69

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For eight or ten dayes the souldiers flockt about him
CHAMBER,I,55.002.70

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and every man hoped to be a colonell at least , CHAMBER,I,55.002.71

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to content theyre humors somwhat , yt was said there shold be petty
regiments raised of and men . CHAMBER,I,55.002.72

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The erle of Southampton was named to be generall of the horse , Sir
Rob: Sidney to be Lord Marshall and I know not how many more to other
places : CHAMBER,I,55.002.73

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but now all is husht again CHAMBER,I,55.002.74

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and only Sir Arthur Savage is going thether with a thowsand men , and
the erle of Tomond with some other small forces to be governor of
Limricke . CHAMBER,I,55.002.75

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is order geven for men to be sent out of Kent , Surrey and Sussex
into the Lowe Countries and so many to be drawne from thence out of the
garrison for Ireland . CHAMBER,I,55.002.76

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And for horsemen to that service the justices of peace thoroughout
England must be intreated to <P_I,56> furnish them CHAMBER,I,56.002.77

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the greatest difficultie is mony which goes so lowe that for all
the subsidies comming on , the privy seales that are past , and the
loane of the other day , the Quene is now in hand to borrow of the
Citie more , offering to lay of her land in morgage and the customes of
the citie of London for the repayment of yt , CHAMBER,I,56.002.78

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the marchaunts and aldermen of London are sent for and dealt with
all severally and urged to lend some , some , some more , some lesse ;
CHAMBER,I,56.002.79

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but howsoever yt fall out , yea though they were willing , I hardly
thincke yt is to be had , CHAMBER,I,56.002.80

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the citie is much decayed by reason theyre trafike is greatly
impaired , CHAMBER,I,56.002.81

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the marchant adventurers were almost upon dissolving , being
hindered in theyre trade by certain enterlopers <paren> as they call
them </paren> against whom they could have no remedy .
CHAMBER,I,56.002.82

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many men muse how the Quene being discharged of the burthen of the Lowe
Countries , and having no other charge but Ireland should be driven to
these straights , CHAMBER,I,56.002.83

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and unles there shold be exceding urgent need indeed , yt is thought a
straunge pollicie to discover our want so far to the world , whereat
our ennemies abrode will take no small hartening . CHAMBER,I,56.002.84

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Buckhurst is now in full cry to be Lord Treasurer ,
CHAMBER,I,56.002.85

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is thought the wardes in the end will fall to Master Secretary ,
CHAMBER,I,56.002.86

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet some say the Quene will bestow yt upon some meane man , who for a
pension shall execute the place to her best advantage .
CHAMBER,I,56.002.87

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt was said awhile that the erle of Essex should have yeerely out of yt
, otherwhile that he shold have toward the paiment of his debts and so
to leave his hold , CHAMBER,I,56.002.88

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but we see neither come on very fast . CHAMBER,I,56.002.89

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He kept a kinde of marshalls court of late where the title of Nevill
that claimes to be Lord of Abergeny , and the title of Sir Henry
Leonard that wold be Lord Dacres of the South was argued ,
CHAMBER,I,56.002.90

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but after divers hearings he left the matter as he found yt ,
CHAMBER,I,56.002.91

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so yt is referred to the Queen . CHAMBER,I,56.002.92

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare that Sir Ant: Sherley hath ben at Constantinople and there
wrounge out of our marchants and from thence he went to Aleppo and
there scraped together more , wherewith he hath charged the Lord of
Essex by his billes , and so is gon on God knowes whether to seeke his
fortune . CHAMBER,I,56.002.93

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Richard Lewson hath lately staide 17 saile of Easterlings and
Hollanders in the narrow seas that were going for Spaine ;
CHAMBER,I,56.002.94

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
in the mean time <P_I,57> his father Sir Walter is staide in the Fleet
being faln into hucksters handes <paren> I mean his old creditors
</paren> who laide a traine for him and caught him at Lambeth .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.95

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Marquis is lately dead having left his sonne to succeed him ,
who is like to prove as sufficient a noble man as none of them all .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.96

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Parker brother to the Lord Morley was slaine the last weeke by a
man of Sir Tho: Gerrards about a brabble for the way , wherof the
fellow is acquitted , being found he did yt in his owne defence .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.97

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French inventairie is not come foorth , the author being saide to
be dead , CHAMBER,I,57.002.98

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but there is hope yt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} found among his papers .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.99

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is nothing come out this last mart worth the looking after ;
CHAMBER,I,57.002.100

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I do not thincke but you may fit yourself better at Middleburg , for
that many times thinges are currant there that be here forbidden .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.101

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall receve by this bearer your Thesaurus Geographicus which may
well serve your turne for old authors , CHAMBER,I,57.002.102

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but for the late writers and discoveries I thincke yt will stand you in
litle stead . CHAMBER,I,57.002.103

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I send you likewise such pedlarie pamflets and threehalfpeny ware as we
are served with ; CHAMBER,I,57.002.104

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
make the best use you can of them , CHAMBER,I,57.002.105

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and use your owne censure , CHAMBER,I,57.002.106

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yf I be not deceved some of the satires are passable .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.107

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our Mistris Anne is become a widow before she was a wife , an old
Doctor of Law that hath held her long in hand to marry her being dead
yesterday , wherupon she hath taken her chamber and mournes out of
measure . CHAMBER,I,57.002.108

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubt not but you have heard that Master Sherly hath at last married
the Lady Umpton and made her his deere wife ; CHAMBER,I,57.002.109

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for mine owne part as poore a man as I am I wold not buy such another
of the price . CHAMBER,I,57.002.110

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Doctor Parkins is come out of Denmarke , CHAMBER,I,57.002.111

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sayes he hath brought a goode aunswer . CHAMBER,I,57.002.112

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And thus wishing you all health and welfare I end for this time .
CHAMBER,I,57.002.113

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 8=th= of December 1598 . CHAMBER,I,57.002.114

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,57.002.115

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:44
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:25
LETTER:CHAMBER_002:E2:1598:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my very goode frend Master Dudley Carleton attending on the Lord
Governor of Ostend geve these . CHAMBER,I,57.002.116

<Q_CHM_A_1599_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_003> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,82>

{ED:23._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_August_23,_1599.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goode Master Carleton , Having written twise since the beginning of
this moneth and hearing nothing from you , yt makes us thincke that
either you are hard set aworke , or els that you are so blockt up that
letters can finde no passage . CHAMBER,I,82.003.117

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The world is well amended here since I <P_I,83> wrote last , and the
storme that seemed to looke so blacke almost quite blowne over .
CHAMBER,I,83.003.118

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet our navie is gon to sea prettilie stronge and in goode plight , for
so short warning , conteining 23 shippes and pinnasses of the Quenes ,
12 good marchant shippes provided by the citie and sixe more hired by
her Majestie with 14 hoyes well furnished with ordinaunce and made for
fight . CHAMBER,I,83.003.119

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our land forces are dayly discharged little and little ,
CHAMBER,I,83.003.120

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this day I thincke $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} quite dissolved :
CHAMBER,I,83.003.121

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Hartfordshire men were sent home first and so by degrees one after
another , CHAMBER,I,83.003.122

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet they all receved pay more or lesse , some for fowre , some five
dayes , and some for a whole weeke . CHAMBER,I,83.003.123

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Friday there mustered horse by St. James , and the next day for the
Clergie in St. Georges feild . CHAMBER,I,83.003.124

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet none of the noble men have shewed theyre troupes which together
with other voluntaries are thought wold double that number .
CHAMBER,I,83.003.125

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf occasion had ben to draw forces to a head or into campe , yt is
thought the first proportion wold have risen to foote and horse .
CHAMBER,I,83.003.126

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I assure you they were very well provided , for the most part of horse
, armor and apparayle : CHAMBER,I,83.003.127

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wanted not theyre setting forth with feathers , skarfes and such
other light ware . CHAMBER,I,83.003.128

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Generall with all the great officers of the field came in
great bravery to Powles Crosse on Sonday was sevennight
CHAMBER,I,83.003.129

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and dined with the Lord Mayor : CHAMBER,I,83.003.130

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then was the alarme at hottest that the Spaniards were at Brest ,
which was as likely and fell out as true as all the rest .
CHAMBER,I,83.003.131

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The vulgar sort $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be perswaded but that there was
some great misterie in the assembling of these forces ,
CHAMBER,I,83.003.132

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and because they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} finde the reason of yt , make
many wilde conjectures , CHAMBER,I,83.003.133

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and cast beyond the moone , as sometimes that the Quene was
daungerously sicke , otherwhile that yt was to shew to some that are
absent , that others can be followed as well as they , and that yf
occasion be , militarie services can be as well and redily ordered and
directed as yf they were present with many other as vaine and frivolous
ymaginations as these . CHAMBER,I,83.003.134

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The forces in the west country are not yet dismissed ,
CHAMBER,I,83.003.135

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for there yf any where may be some doubt of daunger .
CHAMBER,I,83.003.136

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir William Russell was sent thether to be Generall and to take order
for all things as he thought best . CHAMBER,I,83.003.137

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And now in the middest of all this hurle-burle is a sodain sound of
peace and that certain fellowes are come from Brussells with commission
from Spaine . CHAMBER,I,83.003.138

<P_I,84>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Cromwell and Sir John Davies are newly come out of Ireland ;
CHAMBER,I,84.003.139

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the ones errand is thought to be about Sir Coniers Clyffords government
and so to returne , CHAMBER,I,84.003.140

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the other some say hath that he went for . CHAMBER,I,84.003.141

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Coniers Clyffords defeat was very fowle at a place called the
Curlewes in Odonells country , CHAMBER,I,84.003.142

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for besides himself and Sir Alexander Ratclyffe there were eight or
nine commaunders lost and above men : CHAMBER,I,84.003.143

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is great fault layde in one Cap: Cosbie , that wheeled about and
caused the first disorder , CHAMBER,I,84.003.144

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but some say Sir Coniers himself went not souldierlike to worke ,
CHAMBER,I,84.003.145

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and when he saw his error , though he might have escaped , wold not
outlive such a losse . CHAMBER,I,84.003.146

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here was newes a while that Sir Thomas Norris and Sir Harry shold be
both dead of theyre hurtes , CHAMBER,I,84.003.147

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I saw a letter of the 14 of this present that only makes mention of
Sir Thomas his weakenes , without any shew of extremitie ,
CHAMBER,I,84.003.148

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for Sir Harry yt is sayde he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} here shortly .
CHAMBER,I,84.003.149

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Essex hath made many new knights CHAMBER,I,84.003.150

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet come by the beadrolle ;
CHAMBER,I,84.003.151

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
mary for a taste you shall have as many as I well remember , as first
Sir Henry Lindley , Sir Harry Cary , <paren> that was Sir Fra: Veres
lieutenant </paren> two Lovelaces , Sir Ajax Harrington , Sir Jacke
Heydon , Sir Dick Morrison , cum multis aliis English and Irish , to
the number of 59 in the whole , since his first arrivall .
CHAMBER,I,84.003.152

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is much marvayled that this humor shold so possesse him , that not
content with his first dosens and scores , he shold thus fall to huddle
them up by halfe hundreds ; CHAMBER,I,84.003.153

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is noted as a straunge thinge that a subject in the space of
seven or eight yeares <paren> not having ben sixe moneths together in
any one action </paren> shold upon so litle service and small desert
make more knights then are in all the realme besides ,
CHAMBER,I,84.003.154

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is doubted that yf he continue this course he will shortly bring
in tag and rag , cut and longe tayle , and so draw the order into
contempt . CHAMBER,I,84.003.155

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Burley hath his patent CHAMBER,I,84.003.156

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is by this time halfeway at Yorke . CHAMBER,I,84.003.157

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Hatton is brought abed of a daughter which stoppes the mouth
of the old slaunder , CHAMBER,I,84.003.158

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and about ten dayes since <P_I,85> yt was christened with great
solemnitie , the Quene <paren> by her deputie the Lady of Oxford
</paren> and the countesse dowager of Darbie being godmothers , and the
Lord Treasurer Godfather . CHAMBER,I,85.003.159

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had almost forgot the greatest newes of all that Dick Fowler was
committed to the Towre the last weeke , for no lesse matter then
suspicion of practise against her Majesties person :
CHAMBER,I,85.003.160

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I hope yt will fall out better with him upon examination ,
CHAMBER,I,85.003.161

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for though I alwayes thought him foolish enough , yet I did not looke
he shold prove divelish . CHAMBER,I,85.003.162

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Cap: Chute <paren> that shold or wold have ben knight in Fraunce
</paren> is in likewise about some such matter . CHAMBER,I,85.003.163

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And Alablaster that escaped out of the Clinke is brought in coram again
being sent from Rochell . CHAMBER,I,85.003.164

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Carleton hath ben almost this sevenight in towne to offer
his service with two horses to Master Secretarie CHAMBER,I,85.003.165

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yet could never find him at leysure , so that I doubt he will come
too late when the play is don . CHAMBER,I,85.003.166

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is all we have unles I shold tell you that last weeke at a puppet
play in St. Johns street the house fell and hurt betwene thirty and
forty persons and slew five outright wherof two <paren> they say
</paren> were goode handsome whoores . CHAMBER,I,85.003.167

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Dormer was in towne yesterday CHAMBER,I,85.003.168

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and came to accompanie Sir Harry Lee to the court .
CHAMBER,I,85.003.169

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Ant: Mildmay is come to towne with a cornet of his owne of horse .
CHAMBER,I,85.003.170

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thincke to go into Oxfordshire very shortly , CHAMBER,I,85.003.171

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and God knowes how long I shall tarry there but I ymagin there and at
Knebworth till toward Michaelmas . CHAMBER,I,85.003.172

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time with my best wishes I betake you to God .
CHAMBER,I,85.003.173

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 23=th= of August 1599 . CHAMBER,I,85.003.174

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,85.003.175

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:45
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:26
LETTER:CHAMBER_003:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my very goode frend Master Dudley Carleton attending on the Lord
Governor of Ostend geve these . CHAMBER,I,85.003.176

<Q_CHM_A_1600_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_004> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,110>

{ED:34._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_October_21,_1600.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goode Master Carleton , I had aunswered your letter this morning but
for your cousen Lytton , who being to go out of towne not only trifled
out the time himself , but made me such a trifler that I doubt I shall
come short of your messenger . CHAMBER,I,110.004.177

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your cousen $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} here again on Monday ,
CHAMBER,I,110.004.178

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and bringes his sonne William to see my Lord Mayors pageant , and these
uncouth ambassadors . CHAMBER,I,110.004.179

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Barbarians were yesterday at court to take theyre leave ,
CHAMBER,I,110.004.180

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} gon shortly , CHAMBER,I,110.004.181

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the eldest of them <paren> which was a kind of preest or prophet
</paren> hath taken his leave of the world CHAMBER,I,110.004.182

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is gon to prophecie apud inferos and to seeke out Mahound theyre
mediator . CHAMBER,I,110.004.183

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is no forrain newes at all , but a sayeng that Ostend shold be
besieged , and two forts built upon the water to take away the haven ,
and that Grave Maurice shold geve great wordes that he will visite
Flaunders once more , and venture to relieve yt , CHAMBER,I,110.004.184

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the time of the yeare <paren> besides other circumstances </paren>
make yt unprobable . CHAMBER,I,110.004.185

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The world sayes Sir Ed: Norris foresaw these tempests ,
CHAMBER,I,110.004.186

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and like a wise pilot provided to kepe himself and his in safe harbour
: CHAMBER,I,110.004.187

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for as the matter is used the towne is now held scant tenable .
CHAMBER,I,110.004.188

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Nevill is urged to returne into Fraunce ,
CHAMBER,I,110.004.189

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he makes many excuses , and so <P_I,111> resolute resistaunce ,
that he pretends he will not backe again , unles he be sent pieds et
poings liez . CHAMBER,I,111.004.190

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Deputie of Ireland makes great meanes to be revoked , which is
thought $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} the sooner graunted , to make rooume
for Sir George Carie to succeed him . CHAMBER,I,111.004.191

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have a constant report that the Lord Keper shall marrye or <paren>
as some say </paren> hath maried the countesse dowager of Darbie on St.
Lukes day last , <paren> God send him goode lucke , </paren> and that
his sonne shall marrie the second daughter , or as others say the Lady
Straunge , which were a straunge match . CHAMBER,I,111.004.192

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dr. Caesar was in full cry for three or fowre dayes to be master of the
Rolles , CHAMBER,I,111.004.193

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but now the voyce runs with Sergeant Heale . CHAMBER,I,111.004.194

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Belike the Lord Keper mistrustes the holding of yt ,
CHAMBER,I,111.004.195

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wold make frends with the meetest mammon . CHAMBER,I,111.004.196

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The chauncellorship of the Duchie likewise is not setled as yt was ,
CHAMBER,I,111.004.197

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for now Secretarie Harbert and Sir Ed: Stafford are in the same balance
. CHAMBER,I,111.004.198

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus hoping to see you shortly I take a short leave .
CHAMBER,I,111.004.199

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 21 of October . CHAMBER,I,111.004.200

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,111.004.201

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:46
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:27
LETTER:CHAMBER_004:E2:1600:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my very goode frend Master Dudley Carleton geve these at Englefeild
. CHAMBER,I,111.004.202

<Q_CHM_A_1602_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_005> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,138>

{ED:45._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_26,_1602.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , Your packet was the first frend I met with at my comming to towne
on St. Georges day : CHAMBER,I,138.005.203

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt was the more welcome for that I had ben so longe fasting , and
found therin such plentie and varietie : CHAMBER,I,138.005.204

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am glad you had so short and safe a passage , which I made account
you could not want carieng so many goode wishes alonge with you .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.205

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I met your brother here the next day after my comming who told me Sir
Edw: Norris is in towne . CHAMBER,I,138.005.206

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Gent is not yet come , CHAMBER,I,138.005.207

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} here shortly . CHAMBER,I,138.005.208

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many other frends are missing that we looke for dayly .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.209

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I went to Knebworth some fowre or five dayes after your departure ,
where we found a sad and sorrowfull house , CHAMBER,I,138.005.210

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I led a mournefull life , CHAMBER,I,138.005.211

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but by the helpe of the bookes you left with me , I made shift to
convert a goode part of my melancolie into devotion .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.212

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your cousen Lytton did all he could to bend himself , and to put on
sometimes a philosophicall , sometimes a Christian resolution ,
CHAMBER,I,138.005.213

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet his patience was not of proofe to beare out such a triall ,
CHAMBER,I,138.005.214

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but that many times yt fayled him when he had most neede .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.215

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We found him very much dejected , and altogether out of taste with any
comfort that could be affoorded him ; CHAMBER,I,138.005.216

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet many holesome cordialls went downe without relish at unawares ,
that have since had goode operation , CHAMBER,I,138.005.217

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I doubt not but the approved medecine of time will worke as well
with him as with others . CHAMBER,I,138.005.218

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The funerall was performed very orderly and with goode solemnitie , and
the more by Master Clarencieux frendly presence , who came from the
buriall of the Lady Barrington unlooked for and unrequested , but went
not empty away as he pretended and wold needes have done .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.219

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your frend Christians brother hath buried his fayre younge wife :
CHAMBER,I,138.005.220

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lord Delaware is lately dead and some say the Lord Stafford .
CHAMBER,I,138.005.221

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many die here almost sodainly as Cawoode the printer and two or three
more of my knowledge . CHAMBER,I,138.005.222

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here <P_I,139> were three seminarie priests hangd and quartered the
last weeke CHAMBER,I,139.005.223

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what is that among so many ? CHAMBER,I,139.005.224

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Captaine Heine <paren> Mistris Fowlers mignon </paren> was hangd lately
in Smithfeld for killing his fellow prisoner in the Fleet ,
CHAMBER,I,139.005.225

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they say blasoned her armes at the gallowes very brodely ,
CHAMBER,I,139.005.226

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but as one shrewd turne seldome comes alone , much about the same time
her brother Boughton that served the archbishop of Caunterbury was
stabd and kild in a brabble at bowles , by his Lords page <paren> a
sonne of Sir Thomas Wilfords </paren> with the bishops owne knife .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.227

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The youth is escaped , CHAMBER,I,139.005.228

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the archbishop takes yt so grevously that the Quene her self was
faine to come and comfort him at Lambeth . CHAMBER,I,139.005.229

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Will Cope was maried in Easter weeke to his mother in lawes daughter ,
and the Lord St. Johns heyre to a daughter of the Lady Fines .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.230

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your French gallants were gon before I came to towne .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.231

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
These haue somwhat mended the matter , and redeemed the rascall report
that Biron and his traine left behinde them , CHAMBER,I,139.005.232

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I heare theyre cariage well commended especially the Duke of Nevers
, saving that the Quenes musicians and other inferior officers
complaine that he was very drie-handed . CHAMBER,I,139.005.233

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene graced him very much CHAMBER,I,139.005.234

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and did him the favour to daunce with him . CHAMBER,I,139.005.235

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare he is gon into Holland and so to the Duke of Cleve his kinsman
. CHAMBER,I,139.005.236

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Fra: Vere is here solliciting for men : CHAMBER,I,139.005.237

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he sent his forerunners before him , who came downe into the country
with the counsailes letters to take up voluntaries ,
CHAMBER,I,139.005.238

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in most places with drumming and all they could do , they scant got
two men in three dayes : so that seing yt will not fadge that way , yt
is saide we shall have a presse and send him away with men .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.239

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard but yesternight that my Lord of Northumberland had put him a
question and that he aunswered yt home . CHAMBER,I,139.005.240

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf I can learne what yt was you shall have yt in my next .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.241

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We talke of men likewise to goe presently for Ireland .
CHAMBER,I,139.005.242

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last newes we heard thence was that the Lord Deputie came very
sicke of a cold and a flixe to Dublin , and that he prepared upon his
amendment to go against Tiron . CHAMBER,I,139.005.243

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
of the Mounster rebells have gotten into Beere Haven where they have
all provisions and five peeces of ordinaunce . CHAMBER,I,139.005.244

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They brag that they will kepe the place till they heare out of Spaine
whether they have sent for succours . CHAMBER,I,139.005.245

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir George <P_I,140> Carew and the erle of Tomond are gon to see yf
they can firret them out . CHAMBER,I,140.005.246

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare much talke of three prises taken by a ship of Sir John Gilberts
<paren> with two or three more in consort </paren> as they were comming
out of the mouth of the river of Lisbone ; CHAMBER,I,140.005.247

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
two of them were laden with corne , munition , and mony for the pay and
provision of a garrison towne on the coast of Africke .
CHAMBER,I,140.005.248

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The other was a ship of tunne very rich of peppers , sugars , and other
rich commodities , besides weight of perle . CHAMBER,I,140.005.249

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Italians lay a coulorable claime to the best part of this lading ,
which yf yt prove prize is assuredly thought will amount to almost an
hundred thousand pound . CHAMBER,I,140.005.250

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I can write you nothing of your Lord ambassador , CHAMBER,I,140.005.251

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have not ben abrode since I came , further then Powles or Sir
Harry Wallops where your cousen Lytton lies all this terme with his
three little daughters , and where you were very kindly remembred
yesternight from all sides . CHAMBER,I,140.005.252

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf here be any thing worth Master Winwods knowledge I pray you impart
yt , and excuse me to him till the next weeke when he shall heare of me
yf I can light upon anything worth the sending . CHAMBER,I,140.005.253

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have had but one day since my comming to towne to do my necessarie
busines and visite frends . CHAMBER,I,140.005.254

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Touching your Catholique sister I know not what to write nor what to
thincke , CHAMBER,I,140.005.255

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
she is so irresolute and inconstant , and yet peevish and wilfull au
bout . CHAMBER,I,140.005.256

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She doth exercise herself and her frends very much ,
CHAMBER,I,140.005.257

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath raised many tragedies since you went : CHAMBER,I,140.005.258

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the worst is she vexes Master Williams so that he growes weary of her ,
CHAMBER,I,140.005.259

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and she is become so cunning , CHAMBER,I,140.005.260

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath profited so well in that schoole of dissimulation , that she
sayes yf yt had not ben for that she told you and me of Valentine , all
had ben well , which seing they know not , there is no reason they
shold watch or restrain her . CHAMBER,I,140.005.261

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your paltrie niece is the instrument and the bellowes that hath kindled
this unnaturall heat among them : CHAMBER,I,140.005.262

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but she escapes not scotfree CHAMBER,I,140.005.263

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the poxe have so peppered her that they have almost put out her
eyes , and mard her bad holy day face . CHAMBER,I,140.005.264

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The day that you went we had a great bickering about the continuall
passage and entercourse of messages and letters which your brother and
sister complained of ; wherin she set us , you and all at nought :
wherupon I told her my minde in the best termes I could , and meant to
absent my self : CHAMBER,I,140.005.265

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the day before I <P_I,141> went she sent for me , having reconciled
herself to her brother and sister CHAMBER,I,141.005.266

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and of her owne accord shewed me divers of theyre letters wherein I am
canvassed and tossed like a tennis ball CHAMBER,I,141.005.267

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall told me she was fully minded to forsake those courses and
to cut of all occasions , CHAMBER,I,141.005.268

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I was no sooner gon CHAMBER,I,141.005.269

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Devill hath put in his foote again , CHAMBER,I,141.005.270

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and now at my comming I finde Totnam turnd French ,
CHAMBER,I,141.005.271

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and your niece is removed to a new lodging where now is the rendez-vous
and all the revell of the men you wot of , CHAMBER,I,141.005.272

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there she is whole dayes and nights , CHAMBER,I,141.005.273

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and will not be spoken to by brother nor sister , and more foolishly
obstinate in her aunswers then ever I knew her . CHAMBER,I,141.005.274

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I verely thincke she seekes occasion of some unkindnes from your
brother and sister , whereby she may have some colour to cast herself
away . CHAMBER,I,141.005.275

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am almost weary of writing so that neque mens neque manus suum
officium facit : CHAMBER,I,141.005.276

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I am more weary of those domesticall brabbles among them , so that
I meane to strive no more against the currant , but let them brew as
they bake and have theyre owne swinge , CHAMBER,I,141.005.277

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I see yt is but laterem lavare to deale any more in yt ;
CHAMBER,I,141.005.278

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet yf you can bethincke and advise any better course , wherin I can do
any goode , in goode faith I will adventure that for your sake that I
will not do for hers CHAMBER,I,141.005.279

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I protest there is no breach nor unkind word hath past between
us , but only that I see she is not the woman I toke her for .
CHAMBER,I,141.005.280

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One thing I had almost forgotten : <paren> which I wold not willingly ,
that you may have a taste of her judgement , </paren> that she told
those parties she had acquainted us with theyre estate and condition .
CHAMBER,I,141.005.281

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have an inckling <paren> but you must take no notice of yt in any
wyse </paren> that your wisest and best esteemed sister is taken in the
same trap , so that I see yf wenches have not theyre will , and that
husbands come not at call we shall have them all discontented and turne
Turke . CHAMBER,I,141.005.282

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Well I have wearied you and my self , CHAMBER,I,141.005.283

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but pardon this once CHAMBER,I,141.005.284

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yt may be I shall not do yt often , CHAMBER,I,141.005.285

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I assure you I will not fayle God willing to trouble you as
often as I can send , though I write but commendations .
CHAMBER,I,141.005.286

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God kepe you . CHAMBER,I,141.005.287

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London this 26 of Aprill . CHAMBER,I,141.005.288

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_005:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,141.005.289

<Q_CHM_A_1602_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_006> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,174>

{ED:56._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_December_4,_1602;_POSTSCRIPT,_December_6.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , This is more of custome and to convey these inclosed , that I
write now , then for any materiall busines or novelties I have to send
you . CHAMBER,I,174.006.290

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last I had from you was of the 29 of October , and the last I sent
of the 19 of November , wherin I must recall the combat in Scotland ,
for there was no such matter , CHAMBER,I,174.006.291

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they are <paren> or were very lately </paren> both alive , and in
the castle of Edemburgh . CHAMBER,I,174.006.292

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We had had so longe a dearth of newes that some goode fellowes thought
yt a fit time to set the mill a worke and found utteraunce at will .
CHAMBER,I,174.006.293

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We are now as busie about the Duke of Buillon , CHAMBER,I,174.006.294

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and coine many messages , aunswers and replies , besides large
discourses what course he will or shold take . CHAMBER,I,174.006.295

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare the Dolphin hath a younge sister , wherewith we say the Kinge
is as little pleased , as his ambassador here that his wife hath
brought a daughter . CHAMBER,I,174.006.296

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Davers is come out of Ireland CHAMBER,I,174.006.297

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and bringes nothing more then I wrote you . CHAMBER,I,174.006.298

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Chaundos is lately dead , CHAMBER,I,174.006.299

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the controversies twixt Mistris Bridges and the younge Lord are
compounded or upon the point , without mariage . CHAMBER,I,174.006.300

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quenes shippes are come from the coast of Spaine
CHAMBER,I,174.006.301

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have met with no adventures . CHAMBER,I,174.006.302

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They arrived at Plimmouth in poore and weake case :
CHAMBER,I,174.006.303

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nine more are making redy to second and supplie them .
CHAMBER,I,174.006.304

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Three Dunkirkers set upon the Crane a ship of the Quenes that convoyed
a marchant , CHAMBER,I,174.006.305

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and put her to her <P_I,175> shifts having slaine the captaine one
Jones , and divers of her men . CHAMBER,I,175.006.306

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At the end of the terme here was a speach of a call of Sergeants ,
CHAMBER,I,175.006.307

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but many lawiers complaine and say they had more neede of a call of
clients . CHAMBER,I,175.006.308

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We had no new sheriffes till Sonday last and then not all neither , but
some on Thursday , CHAMBER,I,175.006.309

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and some are yet to set downe . CHAMBER,I,175.006.310

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Manwoode is for Kent , Sir Ed: Fettiplace for Berkshire , Master
Farmer for Oxford , one Chester for Buckingham , Sir Edward Denny for
Hartfordshire . Master Wendie for Cambridge et sic de caeteris .
CHAMBER,I,175.006.311

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene shold have come to the warming of Master Secretaries new
house on Monday , CHAMBER,I,175.006.312

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but then the cold hindred yt , and on Wensday the fowle weather ,
CHAMBER,I,175.006.313

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wether yt hold appointment this day is a question .
CHAMBER,I,175.006.314

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Monday or Tewsday next the Lord Admirall is to feast her at Arundell
House , CHAMBER,I,175.006.315

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then the Lord Thomas Howard , and the Lord Chamberlain , and all is
to entertain the time , and win her to stay here yf yt may be .
CHAMBER,I,175.006.316

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Carleton is in towne ; CHAMBER,I,175.006.317

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
we are like to have his companie often , now he is sworne and executes
his father Harrisons place , where I doubt he shall reape no great
profit nor reputation , specially during the old mans life , who will
not resigne . CHAMBER,I,175.006.318

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Cope is very hot and earnest for his papers ;
CHAMBER,I,175.006.319

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wold you could tell how to stop his mouth . CHAMBER,I,175.006.320

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This packet to Master Cressy from the Lady Taisborough , was commended
to me by Master Gent , who went this morning toward Askot to fetch
Master Dormer and his Lady to sojourne here this Christmas , and longer
as they like yt . CHAMBER,I,175.006.321

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have looked so longe for Master Winwod that I have almost given him
over . CHAMBER,I,175.006.322

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not written to him because I have nothing more to say , but only
that his frend Hatton Farmer is toward a match with a daughter of the
Lord Andersons , CHAMBER,I,175.006.323

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so I commit you both to Gods holy protection .
CHAMBER,I,175.006.324

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 4=th= of December . CHAMBER,I,175.006.325

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,175.006.326

<P_I,176>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Upon the posts lingering I have kept this letter open a day or two
longer , in which space I have learned that the bullet is lately cut
out from under the bone of Sir Fra: Veres eye , and that he is
perfectly cured . CHAMBER,I,176.006.327

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quenes letters have wronge from him a captaines place in the Briell
for Warberton the pencioner . CHAMBER,I,176.006.328

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I forgot to write you that Clarke the gentleman-usher died before
Mighelmas . CHAMBER,I,176.006.329

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your old frend Captaine Calfhill was employed in the Quenes ships ,
CHAMBER,I,176.006.330

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and came home sicke to Plimmouth before the rest of the fleet : where
he was brought very lowe and leane , CHAMBER,I,176.006.331

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but upon his recoverie , and his stomacke comming to him againe , he so
laid about him , that they say he burst with eating .
CHAMBER,I,176.006.332

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Keper is gon into the countrie upon pretence that the small
poxe be in his house , CHAMBER,I,176.006.333

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but some will needs suspect that to be non causa pro causa .
CHAMBER,I,176.006.334

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene dined this day at Master Secretaries , where they say there
is great varietie of entertainment prepared for her , and many rich
jewells and presents . CHAMBER,I,176.006.335

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is somwhat spoken of about the court that they heare no oftener out
of Fraunce , CHAMBER,I,176.006.336

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and you are counted but slacke there amonge you CHAMBER,I,176.006.337

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but this is to your self CHAMBER,I,176.006.338

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so kepe yt . CHAMBER,I,176.006.339

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Iterum atque iterum vale . CHAMBER,I,176.006.340

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:48
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:29
LETTER:CHAMBER_006:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This 6=th= of December . CHAMBER,I,176.006.341

<Q_CHM_A_1603_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_007> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,180>

{ED:58._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_January_17,_1603.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , The post that brought your last of the twelfth of December hath
taken me napping the next day after my returne from Knebworth ,
CHAMBER,I,180.007.342

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and calles for an aunswer : CHAMBER,I,180.007.343

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though I am not yet fully setled , nor have not sufficiently
informed my self , how the world hath gon here in mine absence , yet
least he shold go empty and so make an yll impression , I have thought
goode to send you what I have got at the first sight .
CHAMBER,I,180.007.344

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The world hath not ben altogether so dull and dead this Chrutmas as was
suspected , CHAMBER,I,180.007.345

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but rather the court hath flourisht more then ordinarie , whether yt be
that the new controller hath put new life into yt by his example ,
<paren> being allwayes freshly attired and for the most part all in
white , cap a pied , </paren> or that the humors of themselves grow
more gallant : CHAMBER,I,180.007.346

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for besides much dauncing , beare-baiting , and many playes , there
hath ben great golden play , wherin Master Secretarie lost better then
$=li= {TEXT:800=li=} in one night , and asmuch more at other times ,
the gretest part wherof came to Edward Stanleys and Sir John Lees share
. CHAMBER,I,180.007.347

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is young Hawkins come lately out of Spaine , CHAMBER,I,180.007.348

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<paren> whether by exchaunge or raunsome I know not </paren> ,
CHAMBER,I,180.007.349

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bringes word of great preparations , and of divers of our marchants
ships and venturers taken about the straights , CHAMBER,I,180.007.350

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
among the rest one Captain Middleton whom the Spaniards with a hatefull
and ridiculous fallace <paren> to kepe theyre word that they wold do
him no harme </paren> forced his owne men to strangle .
CHAMBER,I,180.007.351

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quenes ships have staide fowre Lubeckers in the narrow seas laden
with armes and munition for Spaine , who report that fouretene more
with the like fraught are gon about by the north of Scotland .
CHAMBER,I,180.007.352

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The rebells come in dayly in Ireland , CHAMBER,I,180.007.353

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt is thought that Tirone himself $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} shortly
admitted to parlee . CHAMBER,I,180.007.354

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our commissioners stay still at Breme , though yt were geven out that
the treatie was broken of . CHAMBER,I,180.007.355

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indeed the Danes were departed CHAMBER,I,180.007.356

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but are to return again out of hand . CHAMBER,I,180.007.357

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Edward Conway is newly come from the Brill and Sir <P_I,181> Robert
Sidney as lately gon to Flushing . CHAMBER,I,181.007.358

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Dr. Bennett deane of Windsore is preferred to the bishopricke of
Hereford : CHAMBER,I,181.007.359

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there is much canvassing for his Deanry , and mastership of St. Crosse
which George Brooke wold faine ingrosse . CHAMBER,I,181.007.360

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bishopricke of Norwich is conferred upon one Dr. Griggon of
Cambridge . CHAMBER,I,181.007.361

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Taisborough is lately dead , as yt were almost sodainly .
CHAMBER,I,181.007.362

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a quarrell growing at court twixt younge Wharton and Ashley
about a mistris or some such waighty matter CHAMBER,I,181.007.363

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the lie past CHAMBER,I,181.007.364

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the counsaile in theyre wisdomes vouchsafed to compound yt .
CHAMBER,I,181.007.365

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir the truth is that when I began this letter I meant yt to Master
Carleton , CHAMBER,I,181.007.366

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but Master Gent comming in the nicke and shewing me yours of the fourth
of this present brought by Peter Browne , I altered my minde , not
knowing what termes he standes in , nor with what safetie letters come
to his handes : desiring you to acquaint him with yt yf you please ,
and to tell him that his turne is next . CHAMBER,I,181.007.367

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sorry we shall not see you so soone , CHAMBER,I,181.007.368

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I and some other of his frends relie altogether upon your relation
and advise what course he and you shall thincke to be best for him ,
CHAMBER,I,181.007.369

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so with my best wishes to you both I commit you to God .
CHAMBER,I,181.007.370

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 17=th= of January . CHAMBER,I,181.007.371

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,181.007.372

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:49
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_007:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my assured goode frend Master Ralphe Winwod geve these at Paris .
CHAMBER,I,181.007.373

<Q_CHM_A_1604_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_008> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,198>

{ED:67._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_December_18,_1604.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , Here is no manner of noveltie or alteration since my last ,
CHAMBER,I,198.008.374

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet being to kepe Christmas out of towne and even redy for my
journy I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} forbeare though I be like to send out
an empty letter . CHAMBER,I,198.008.375

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinge came backe from Roiston on Saterday , but so far from beinge
wearie or satisfied with those sportes , that presently after the holy
dayes he makes reckning to be there again , or as some say to go
further toward Lincolnshire to a place called Ancaster Heath .
CHAMBER,I,198.008.376

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane time here is great provision for cockepit to entertaine
him at home ; and of maskes and revells against the mariage of Sir
Phillip Harbert and the Lady Susan Vere which is to be celebrated on
St. Johns day . CHAMBER,I,198.008.377

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene hath likewise a great maske in hand against Twelftide : for
which there was delivered a moneth ago . CHAMBER,I,198.008.378

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her brother the Duke of Holst is here still procuring a levie of men to
carie into Hungarie : CHAMBER,I,198.008.379

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but me thinckes they should have litle to do that wold adventure
themselves so far with a man able to do them no more goode .
CHAMBER,I,198.008.380

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is an ambassador newly come out of Denmarke ,
CHAMBER,I,198.008.381

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I neither heare nor inquire after his errand .
CHAMBER,I,198.008.382

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Lennox is presently going in ambassage for Fraunce ,
CHAMBER,I,198.008.383

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though yt be thought that his owne busines is his greatest
imployment , yet for his countenaunce this place is imposed upon him ,
and to beare his charge . CHAMBER,I,198.008.384

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is speach that Sir Harry Maynard is or $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
appointed lidger for Fraunce , and Sir Richard Spenser or as some say
Sir Harry Nevill for Spaine . CHAMBER,I,198.008.385

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our men complaine of yll usage there , specially of the inquisition ,
who will take no notice , nor be tied to any capitulation that shall
restrain theyre authoritie , as being no part of the Kinges
jurisdiction , CHAMBER,I,198.008.386

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we are still perswaded that the Lord Admiralls going will mend all
, which will not be till Februarie at the <P_I,199> soonest .
CHAMBER,I,199.008.387

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare he caries with him the title of excellencie , and hath allowed
for his expence , besides the charge of two of the Kings best shippes
to transport him . CHAMBER,I,199.008.388

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King sends a present of certain horses and hunting geldings with
two rich saddles , and eight or ten horseclothes of severall coloured
velvets with rich embroderie , whereby they are hot and heavie <paren>
and so very improper for that place </paren> , valued at eight hundred
pounds a peece , as likewise the whole sortes me thinckes nothing well
; being as yf we sent trees to the woode . CHAMBER,I,199.008.389

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The archbishop tooke possession of his sea of Caunterburie the of this
moneth , CHAMBER,I,199.008.390

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was confirmed in the presence of the Prince and all the great
Lordes and counsaillors about this towne . CHAMBER,I,199.008.391

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vaughan late bishop of Chester was elected to London on Friday last :
CHAMBER,I,199.008.392

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the tragedie of Gowrie with all the action and actors hath ben twise
represented by the Kings players , with exceding concourse of all
sortes of people , CHAMBER,I,199.008.393

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but whether the matter or manner be not well handled , or that yt be
thought unfit that princes should be plaide on the stage in theyre life
time , I heare that some great counsaillors are much displeased with yt
: CHAMBER,I,199.008.394

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is thought $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} forbidden .
CHAMBER,I,199.008.395

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is generally held and spoken that the Quene is quicke with childe .
CHAMBER,I,199.008.396

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so wishing a merry Christmas and many a goode yeare to you and
Mistris Winwod I commit you to God . CHAMBER,I,199.008.397

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 18 of December . CHAMBER,I,199.008.398

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,199.008.399

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:50
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull Master Winwod esquire Agent for his Majestie
with the United States of the Low-Countries geve these at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,199.008.400

<Q_CHM_A_1605_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_009> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,201>

{ED:69._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_January_26,_1605.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , Your letter of the 21 of the last met me on the way on Monday as
I was comming to towne : CHAMBER,I,201.009.401

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but Dudley Carleton hath acquainted you with all theyre
Christmas games at court , CHAMBER,I,201.009.402

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he was a spectator of all the sportes and shewes .
CHAMBER,I,201.009.403

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinge went to Roiston two dayes after Twelfetide , where and
thereabout he hath continued ever since , CHAMBER,I,201.009.404

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and findes such felicitie in that hunting life , that he hath written
to the counsaile , that yt is the only meanes to maintain his health ,
<paren> which being the health and welfare of us all </paren> he
desires them to undertake the charge and burden of affaires , and
foresee that he be not interrupted nor troubled with too much busines .
CHAMBER,I,201.009.405

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He continues still his wonted bountie , CHAMBER,I,201.009.406

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath lately geven the Duke of Holst besides a weeke he is allowed
for his expence : and a yeare in fee farme to the Lord of Fifie for his
paines in the union , and bringing up the young duke of Yorke .
CHAMBER,I,201.009.407

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You have heard of the putting of the parliament till October , the
reason wherof I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} understand nor reach unto ,
unles yt be that they wold have all the privie seales paide in : and
that they wold have these matters of the church thoroughly setled ,
wherein yt is hard to say what course were best to take , for that more
shew themselves opposite then was suspected , and the bishops
themselves are loth to proceed too rigorously in casting out and
depriving so many well reputed of for life and learning :
CHAMBER,I,201.009.408

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only the King is constant to have all come to conformitie .
CHAMBER,I,201.009.409

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Though he seeke to be very private and retired where he is , yet he is
much importuned with petitions in theyre behalfe , and with foolish
prophesies of daungers to insue : CHAMBER,I,201.009.410

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and great speach we have of a straunge apparition lately at Berwicke of
two armies that fought a longe time with horse , foote , and ordinaunce
. CHAMBER,I,201.009.411

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our marchants complaine excedingly of theyre hard usage in Spaine ,
CHAMBER,I,201.009.412

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but promise is made that upon the Lord Admiralls comming all $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} amended . CHAMBER,I,201.009.413

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Richard Spenser hath got himself dismist upon earnest remonstrance
of his weakenes both-1 in body and estate . CHAMBER,I,201.009.414

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is not yet <P_I,202> resolved who shall take the charge ,
CHAMBER,I,202.009.415

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but there is speach of Sir Charles Conwallis , or Sir Julius Caesar .
CHAMBER,I,202.009.416

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eight or ten dayes since there was above two hundreth pounds worth of
popish bookes taken about Southampton house and burned in Poules
Churchyard . CHAMBER,I,202.009.417

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We heare of one Evans an Englishman made Rector at Padua and graced
extraordinarilie . CHAMBER,I,202.009.418

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our counsaile sit no more on Sondayes in the forenoone ,
CHAMBER,I,202.009.419

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but have devided theyre meetings to Sondayes and Wensdayes afterdinner
. CHAMBER,I,202.009.420

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heard yesterday that Phillips the disciferer was apprehended and
committed , and all his papers seased : CHAMBER,I,202.009.421

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
how far the matter may spread is not yet discovered
CHAMBER,I,202.009.422

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt is very new . CHAMBER,I,202.009.423

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All I could learne is , that he held correspondence with one Owen an
auncient fugitive about the Archduke . CHAMBER,I,202.009.424

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus having not further to inlarge I commend you and Mistris Winwod to
the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,202.009.425

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
London CHAMBER,I,202.009.426

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this 26=th= of January . CHAMBER,I,202.009.427

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,202.009.428

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_009:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull Master Winwod esquire Agent for his Majestie
with the United States of the Lowe Countries geve these at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,202.009.429

<Q_CHM_A_1605_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_010> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,202>

{ED:70._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_February_16,_1605.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , I have receved two letters from you since I wrote last , the
first of an old date the of November , the later of the 29=th= of
January with the King of Spaines proclamation , for which I geve you
many thanckes , though I found yt here redy translated at my comming to
towne . CHAMBER,I,202.010.430

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The articles of our treaty with Spaine are newly published in print ,
as yf they had ben halfe ashamed or afraide to shew themselves before
they <P_I,203> saw how they could be disgested . CHAMBER,I,203.010.431

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Spanish ambassador complaines that our people on the sea coast shew
more favor and familiaritie upon all occasions to theyre old frends the
Hollanders then to the Dunkerkers : CHAMBER,I,203.010.432

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Caron cries out as fast <paren> and with more reason </paren> that
the Kings ships in the narrow seas do all the contrary .
CHAMBER,I,203.010.433

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Lennox is not yet returned , CHAMBER,I,203.010.434

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but some of his forerunners are come , who report that he found but
course entertainment , whether yt were by reason of his uncle Entragues
disgrace , or upon complaint of the French ambassador here that he is
no more respected , and therefore hath sent for his leave to be gon :
or that there is some other alienation toward . CHAMBER,I,203.010.435

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We say here that the French King hath , or is about to make the like
contract with the States to serve him with shipping upon all occasions
, as he hath with the Swizzers for land forces . CHAMBER,I,203.010.436

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our puritans go downe on all sides , CHAMBER,I,203.010.437

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though our new bishop of London proceed but slowly , yet at last he
hath deprived , silenced , or suspended , all that continue disobedient
, in which course he hath won himself great commendation of gravitie ,
wisdome , learning , mildenes and temperance , even among that faction
, CHAMBER,I,203.010.438

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed is held every way the most sufficient man of that coate .
CHAMBER,I,203.010.439

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet those that are deprived wrangle , CHAMBER,I,203.010.440

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and will not be put downe , CHAMBER,I,203.010.441

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but appeale to the parliament , CHAMBER,I,203.010.442

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seeke prohibitions by law , CHAMBER,I,203.010.443

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the judges have all geven theyre opinions that the proceedings
against them are lawfull : CHAMBER,I,203.010.444

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be relieved that way .
CHAMBER,I,203.010.445

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then they take another course to plie the King with petitions , the
ringeleaders whereof , were Sir Richard and Sir Valentine Knightly ,
Sir Edward Montague with some three or fowrescore gentlemen more that
joyned in a petition for the ministers of Northamptonshire the last
weeke , which was so yll taken that divers of them were convented
before the counsaile , and told what daunger they had put themselves in
by these associations : and that this combining themselves in a cause ,
against which the King had shewed his mislike both-7 by publike acts ,
and proclamation , was litle lesse then treason : that the subscribing
with so many names were armatae preces and tended to sedition : as had
ben manifestly seene heretofore both-9 in Scotland , Fraunce and
Flaunders in the beginning of those troubles . CHAMBER,I,203.010.446

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But now <P_I,204> to make all even , and that the Papists shold not
take heart upon the depressing of the puritans , or that indeed they
did so , and flattered themselves with a vaine hope of toleration : or
that yt were cunningly imposed upon them by the contrarie part : upon
Sonday last the King made a longe and vehement apologie for himself in
the counsaile chamber , that he never had any such intention , that yf
he thought his sonnes wold condiscend to any such course , he could
wish the kingdom translated to his daughter : that the mitigation of
theyre payments was in consideration that not any one of them had lift
up his hand against his comming in , CHAMBER,I,204.010.447

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he gave them a yeare of probation to conforme themselves , which
seeing yt had wrought none effect , he had fortefied all the lawes that
were against them and made them stronger , <paren> saving for bloude
from which he had a naturall aversion </paren> and commaunded they
shold be put in execution to the uttermost ; and that this his
intention shold be made knowne publikely , as yt was on Wensday last in
the Starchamber by all the Lordes in very ample manner , and likewise
on Thursday to the Lord Mayor and aldermen by the recorder .
CHAMBER,I,204.010.448

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Edward Stafford died the last weeke almost sodainly , leaving his
office of first fruites to Sir W. Harvy , and that of the Pipe to Sir
Fra: Wolley that had the reversions . CHAMBER,I,204.010.449

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir W. Meredith pay master of our garrisons in the Low Countries is
likewise deade , CHAMBER,I,204.010.450

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my Lord of Cranbourne got his office for one Wright that was
secretarie to the Muscovie and Turky marchants . CHAMBER,I,204.010.451

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Tewsday the Lord Rich his eldest sonne maried the daughter of Sir W.
Hatton , heyre likewise <paren> yf he please </paren> to Judge Gawdie ,
who was in speach with the Lord Treasurer for his grandchilde , eldest
sonne to the Lord Buckhurst : CHAMBER,I,204.010.452

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Lady Rich prevented him CHAMBER,I,204.010.453

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and winning her goode will contracted her secretly to her sonne .
CHAMBER,I,204.010.454

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Admirall makes great preparation for his jorny .
CHAMBER,I,204.010.455

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I can send you no more particularities yet but that he hath with him
<P_I,205> sixe Lordes , viz. the erle of Murray his wifes brother , the
Lord of Effingham , the Lord Theophilus Howard , the Lord Willoughby ,
the Lord Norris and the Lord Drummond , and knights wherof Sir Walter
Cope is most notable . CHAMBER,I,205.010.456

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is one Corbet an unknowne man <paren> but that my Lord of
Cranborne commended him highly </paren> lately sworne clarke of the
counsaile extraordinarie : CHAMBER,I,205.010.457

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the reason of his admittance was , that divers of the clarkes grew old
and ydle in waiting ; CHAMBER,I,205.010.458

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
others <paren> among whom you were named </paren> were employed abrode
in the Kings service . CHAMBER,I,205.010.459

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is all I have for the present so that with my best wishes I
commend you to the protection of the almighty . CHAMBER,I,205.010.460

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 16=th= of February . CHAMBER,I,205.010.461

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,205.010.462

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_010:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull Master Winwod esquire Agent for his Majestie
with the United States of the Low-Countries geve these at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,205.010.463

<Q_CHM_A_1605_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_011> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,205>

{ED:71._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_30,_1605.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , Though I know not where nor when this may meet you : yet because
Master Mathew is upon goinge I thought goode to write , though yt were
but to send you your mothers blessinge , with the salutations and goode
wishes of all your frends without Creplegate , and elsewhere :
CHAMBER,I,205.011.464

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for newes here is none but only of matches , mariages , christninge ,
creations , knightings and such like , as yf this world wold last ever
, and whatsoever els were new now , wold be very stale before yt came
at you , and therefore as goode say nothing as to no purpose :
CHAMBER,I,205.011.465

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} omit three <P_I,206> pulpit-occurrents
that happened on Sonday last . CHAMBER,I,206.011.466

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
First that Deane Gordon preaching before the Kinge , is come so farre
about the matter of ceremonies , that out of Ezechiell , and other
places of the prophets , and by certain Hebrue characters , and other
cabalisticall collections , he hath found out and approved the use of
the crosse , cap and surplis et ct . CHAMBER,I,206.011.467

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Then Haddocke of New Colledge the sleeping preacher , so much followed
and admired in Oxford and every where , being sent for to the court and
there playeng his prises , was discovered CHAMBER,I,206.011.468

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and confessed himself an impostor . CHAMBER,I,206.011.469

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Lastly Doctor Milwoode preaching at Powles Crosse , in the middest of
the sermon , a cuckowe came flienge over the pulpit , <paren> a thing
that I never saw nor heard of before </paren> CHAMBER,I,206.011.470

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and very lewdly called CHAMBER,I,206.011.471

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and cried out with open mouth . CHAMBER,I,206.011.472

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You see what pettie reckenings I am faine to picke out to make up a
summe . CHAMBER,I,206.011.473

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Upon the receit of your letter which you left for me with Master Mathew
, I found meanes presently to pay him the thirty pound ,
CHAMBER,I,206.011.474

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and according to your direction will satisfie my self when the monie
shall come in , due by Master Thorps and Master Oldsworthes bond :
CHAMBER,I,206.011.475

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for the rest will do what I can to employ yt to your best use , yf
you come not home before that time ; CHAMBER,I,206.011.476

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
as I see there is generall doubt made of yt ; CHAMBER,I,206.011.477

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for at my comming to towne out of Hartfordshire , <paren> I know not by
what meanes </paren> I found yt in many mouthes that you had a purpose
not to returne in a yeare or two : which bruit how far yt may prejudice
you with your Lord you can judge : CHAMBER,I,206.011.478

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is an uncertain report that the parliament is like to be put of
till Januarie , which yf yt prove true , me thinckes might serve
somwhat to alter your course . CHAMBER,I,206.011.479

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have receved your bagge of papers and your cabinet , of your sister
Alice , CHAMBER,I,206.011.480

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and will take as great care to keepe them safe as mine owne ,
CHAMBER,I,206.011.481

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so wishing you a prosperous journy and happie returne I commend you
to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,206.011.482

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this last of Aprill . CHAMBER,I,206.011.483

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,206.011.484

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:51
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:32
LETTER:CHAMBER_011:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my assured goode frend Master Dudley Carleton geve these .
CHAMBER,I,206.011.485

<Q_CHM_A_1605_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_012> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,207>

{ED:72._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:September,_1605.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Alice , I am not so wedded to my will , CHAMBER,I,207.012.486

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor stand not so much on mine owne conceit , but that I acknowledge I
have don you some little wronge , CHAMBER,I,207.012.487

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am redy to make any reasonable satisfaction . CHAMBER,I,207.012.488

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet the more I thincke of yt , the lesse weight I finde in the offence
: CHAMBER,I,207.012.489

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt can be but a veniall sinne at most to let slip an unadvised word
, or to presume I had that interest in you , that my more then twise
seven yeares service might challenge at your handes .
CHAMBER,I,207.012.490

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But seing you hold yt not worth the regarding , <paren> much lesse
rewarding </paren> and that beggers must be no choosers , <paren> but
that yt lies in you to bestow your favors when and where you list
</paren> I will dispute yt no further , but learne to measure my merit
by your ynch and not by mine owne ell . CHAMBER,I,207.012.491

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet can I never allow yt for justice that every ydle word shold be
weighed in so strict a ballaunce , or that so small and easie a request
shold be so unkindly and violently rejected . CHAMBER,I,207.012.492

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have not the face nor the hart to see you , CHAMBER,I,207.012.493

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but blush to myself to see my long and faithfull endevours so requited
: CHAMBER,I,207.012.494

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but patience is the poore mans vertue , <paren> though no poore vertue
</paren> wherewith I will arme my self to beare out this banishment :
which I hope I shall do the better , for that I grow wearie of those
domesticall warres and factious wranglings there among you :
CHAMBER,I,207.012.495

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and withall , feare that you are too far engaged in a wrong course ,
and have geven too great earnest to go backe from the bargain .
CHAMBER,I,207.012.496

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Consider whence you fall , and what a straunge alteration yt hath
wrought in you every way alredy . CHAMBER,I,207.012.497

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Looke before you leape into what an endles mase or labirinth {into}_P
you cast yourself , the yssue whereof you shall finde a great deale
more difficult then the entrie . CHAMBER,I,207.012.498

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Let not this heat of contention and contesting you are now in , kindle
an unnaturall fire twixt you and your neerest frends ,
CHAMBER,I,207.012.499

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor suffer not your wilfull and peremptorie disposition to transport
you into some head-strong race , whether your staied judgement wold
never have ledde you . CHAMBER,I,207.012.500

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know how litle my perswasions are like to prevaile ,
CHAMBER,I,207.012.501

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but tendring you and your goode as I do , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
forbeare , though I account yt lost labour . CHAMBER,I,207.012.502

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howsoever yt be , I will not cease to wish you well ;
CHAMBER,I,207.012.503

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so prayeng you to remember your promise touching the cause , and to
let this paper passe the way of <P_I,208> other letters , <paren> that
yt remaine not a monument of my error and your rigor </paren> I leave
to trouble you , but not to continue Yours in all true affection John
Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,208.012.504

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_012:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To Mistris Alice Carleton geve these . CHAMBER,I,208.012.505

<Q_CHM_A_1605_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_013> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,208>

{ED:73._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_October_12,_1605.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , After so longe silence I am out of my bias ,
CHAMBER,I,208.013.506

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and know not where to begin , CHAMBER,I,208.013.507

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neither know I what is new or what is old to you ,
CHAMBER,I,208.013.508

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Kinges intertainment at Oxford must nedes be stale , whence I
make no question but you had so many large advertisements that nothing
could scape untoucht : CHAMBER,I,208.013.509

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet at all adventures I will shoote my bolt , and geve a short censure
. CHAMBER,I,208.013.510

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The disputations for the most part were well performed
CHAMBER,I,208.013.511

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and pleased the Kinge excedingly , CHAMBER,I,208.013.512

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he had a great part in them , CHAMBER,I,208.013.513

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake often and to the purpose , CHAMBER,I,208.013.514

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he was so continually interrupted with applauding that he could not
expresse himself so well as he wisht , CHAMBER,I,208.013.515

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet he found taste in that distast CHAMBER,I,208.013.516

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was nere a whit offended . CHAMBER,I,208.013.517

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the playes had not the like successe , specially Magdalens tragedie
of Ajax , which was very tedious and wearied all the companie .
CHAMBER,I,208.013.518

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the day of departure an English pastorall of Samuell Daniells
<paren> presented before the Quene </paren> made amends for all , being
indeed very excellent , and some parts exactly acted .
CHAMBER,I,208.013.519

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King hath mended the Divinitie lecture by annexing to yt a canonrie
of Christ Church and the parsonage of Newelme : CHAMBER,I,208.013.520

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Lord Treasurer kept open house a whole weeke at New Colledge ,
CHAMBER,I,208.013.521

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was every way so bountifull , that men doubt the chauncellor of
Cambridge will scant follow his example when yt comes to his <P_I,209>
turne . CHAMBER,I,209.013.522

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other newes here hath ben litle or none but hunting and such like
journies . CHAMBER,I,209.013.523

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King went lately to Roiston his old garrison ,
CHAMBER,I,209.013.524

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is now at Huntington or thereabout : CHAMBER,I,209.013.525

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Quene lies at Hampton Court , CHAMBER,I,209.013.526

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the counsaile sit much at White-hall about ordering the houshold
and bringing yt to the French fashion of bourd-wages ,
CHAMBER,I,209.013.527

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but when all is don yt will not be , CHAMBER,I,209.013.528

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we must still live under the tirannie of takers .
CHAMBER,I,209.013.529

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The sodain rising of the sicknes to thirtie a weeke and the infecting
of nineteen parishes made us thincke the terme or parlement or both
might be prolonged and put of : CHAMBER,I,209.013.530

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the abating of some few this weeke makes all hold on .
CHAMBER,I,209.013.531

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is observed that many parlement men of marke are dead since the last
sessions as Sir Arthur Atie , Sir Thomas Lucie , Sir Richard Leveson ,
Sir Henry Beaumont , Sir Edward Lewkener and others :
CHAMBER,I,209.013.532

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Lewes Lewkener hath buried his new younge Ladie that was Argalles
widow , and Sir Fra: Mannors his lady Bevill both of the small poxe ,
which have raigned and raged here this sommer excedingly .
CHAMBER,I,209.013.533

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Judge Anderson died in August CHAMBER,I,209.013.534

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and justice Gawdie succedes him in the common place :
CHAMBER,I,209.013.535

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the bishop of Chichester is dead rich for so meane a living
CHAMBER,I,209.013.536

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bestowed the greatest part of his wealth on his kinred and servants
. CHAMBER,I,209.013.537

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Dr. Andrewes is like to be bishop and aulmoner in his place ,
CHAMBER,I,209.013.538

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his deanrie of Westminster goes to one Dr. Neale a man of no great
note , more then that he is the earle of Salisburies chaplain , and his
parsonage of St. Giles to Dr. Buckridge and his other parcells to
meaner men . CHAMBER,I,209.013.539

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Old Sir Thomas Tresham is likewise gon at last . CHAMBER,I,209.013.540

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Michaelmas day the archbishop of Caunterburie was sworne of the
counsaile by the Kings owne appointment and with very goode wordes .
CHAMBER,I,209.013.541

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but you have heard how vicount Lile was called coram for
his absurd journie by Flaunders to Flushing : and how he was faine to
crie peccavi and confesse his error , as likewise that Count Arundell
is recalled and warned to appeare here upon his perill .
CHAMBER,I,209.013.542

<P_I,210>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was sory to heare of the taking of Linghen , CHAMBER,I,210.013.543

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and feare yt may prove a shrewde thorne in the States foote , and
ranckle further yf yt be not plucked out the sooner .
CHAMBER,I,210.013.544

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thancke you much for your last letter with the pamflet of the
Jesuites piller , which found mee out at Askot CHAMBER,I,210.013.545

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am sory here is nothing to repay in the same kinde .
CHAMBER,I,210.013.546

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The best tidings I can send you is that we are in the way to have
excellent melons hereafter : CHAMBER,I,210.013.547

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I assure you this yeare alredy I have met with divers litle or
nothing inferior to those of Italie : CHAMBER,I,210.013.548

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and some before the midst of August . CHAMBER,I,210.013.549

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So wishing all health to you and goode Mistris Winwod , I commend you
to Gods holy protection . CHAMBER,I,210.013.550

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 12=th= of October . CHAMBER,I,210.013.551

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,210.013.552

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:51
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_013:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull Master Winwod esquire his Majesties Agent in
the United States of the Low-Countries geve these at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,210.013.553

<Q_CHM_A_1606_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_014> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,223>

{ED:80._TO_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_April_5,_1606.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , In my last I told you the beginning but not the full end of that
false alarme of the Kinges losse : CHAMBER,I,223.014.554

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt spread far and neare CHAMBER,I,223.014.555

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and could not be countermanded in the countrie in three or fowre dayes
, insomuch there was faine to be a proclamation to restraine assemblies
and seditious rumors . CHAMBER,I,223.014.556

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At his comming to towne the same day , the whole court went to meet him
, CHAMBER,I,223.014.557

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the parliament sent Sir Maurice Barkeley with fowre knights more to
welcome him , CHAMBER,I,223.014.558

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Speaker with his mace went beyond the parke-corner to bring him in
, CHAMBER,I,223.014.559

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Lord Mayor with his brethern went to him after supper to
congratulate his safetie , to all which he made severall harangues , as
likewise to the peoples acclamations the next day when he went to the
sermon , telling them that he tooke these demonstrations more kindly
then yf they had won a battell for him : that a better kinge they might
have , but a more loving and carefull for theyre goode they could not ,
and that these signes were the more welcome to him for that foraine
ambassadors might see the vanitie of those reports that were spread
abrode in other countries of mislikes and distasts twixt him and his
people . CHAMBER,I,223.014.560

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But amongst all these mutuall rejoysings , Sir Lewes Lewkener had the
most feeling comfort , beeing presented by the Spanish ambassador with
a chaine of sixescore pound , for bringing the goode newes and for the
care he seemed to have of him . CHAMBER,I,223.014.561

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kings day passed with the ordinarie solemnities .
CHAMBER,I,223.014.562

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bishop of Glocester preached at Paules Crosse , and the bishop of
Rochester to the parliament at Westminster . CHAMBER,I,223.014.563

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The tilting was performed very barely , and theyre whole equipage poore
and penurious , saving the earles of Pembroke and Mongomerie that was
both rich and daintie : CHAMBER,I,223.014.564

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there was more expected for devise and cost <paren> at least </paren>
at the hands of the Duke of Lennox and the younge earle of Arundell for
the maidenhead of theyre running : CHAMBER,I,223.014.565

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yt were hard to tell you who ran best , where scant any did well ,
CHAMBER,I,223.014.566

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the earle of Mongomerie for a younge beginner did extraordinarie .
CHAMBER,I,223.014.567

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Garnet the Jesuite was arraigned at the Guild-hall the 28=th= of the
last before the Lord Mayor , the Lords Admirall , Chamberlain ,
<P_I,224> Worcester , Salisberie , Northampton , Cheife Justice and
other commissioners . CHAMBER,I,224.014.568

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King was present but unseen , as likewise divers Ladies .
CHAMBER,I,224.014.569

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt lasted long , from eight in the morning till seven at night :
CHAMBER,I,224.014.570

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the summe of all was that Garnet comming into England in 86 hath had
his finger in every treason since that time : CHAMBER,I,224.014.571

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and not longe before the late Quenes death had two breves sent him from
the Pope , the one to the nobilitie and gentrie , the other to the
archpriest and clergie of England , that quandocunque contigerit
miseram illam faeminam ex hac vita migrare , they shold take care
<paren> neglecta propinquitate sanguinis or any other respect </paren>
to make choice of such a Prince as either shold be Catholike , or els
promise and sweare not only to tolerate , but to further that religion
to his uttermost . CHAMBER,I,224.014.572

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But for these matters he was not now to be touched having taken the
benefit of the Kings pardon the first yeare of his raigne .
CHAMBER,I,224.014.573

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But for the late hellish conspiracie he was proved to be privie to yt
both-1 from Catesbie and Tesmond or Greenway a Jesuite , to which he
aunswered that from Catesbie he had yt but in generall termes , and
from Tesmond sub sigillo confessionis : which aunswer though yt were
insufficient , yet yt was replied that Catesbie having imparted to him
the particulers of the very same plot to be performed in the Quenes
time , yt was not likelie he wold conceale them from him now :
CHAMBER,I,224.014.574

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the continuall entercourse twixt him and the cheife actors , with
his directions and letters by Winter and Wright to the King of Spaine ,
by Fawkes to the Archduke , and by Sir Edward Bainham <paren> captain
of the damned crew </paren> to the Pope , shew that he could not but be
acquainted and one of the principall directors in yt , as likewise his
comming to the rendez-vous in Warwickshire the very next day after yt
shold have ben performed , to all which he had none other aunswer but
that having yt in confession he was not to reveale yt , but protested
that he had disswaded yt and prayed against yt , and that he made no
question but God heard his prayer . CHAMBER,I,224.014.575

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But how farre these men are to be beleved in theyre protestations and
oaths my Lord of Salisberie made knowne by two notable instances :
having first shewed that by reason of theyre impudent slaunders and
reports , we are driven to take another course then they do in other
countries by way of torture , CHAMBER,I,224.014.576

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yf they die in prison they give out we have starved or tortured
them to death , CHAMBER,I,224.014.577

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf they kill themselves we make them away : so that we are faine to
flatter and pamper them and get out matters by faire meanes as we can ,
so that by the <P_I,225> cunning of his keeper Garnet beeing brought
into a fooles paradise , had divers conferences with Hall his fellow
priest in the Towre , which were overheard by spialls set of purpose ,
with which being charged he stiffely denied , but being still urged and
some light geven him that they had notice of yt he persisted still with
protestation upon his soule and salvation that there had passed no such
interlocution , till at last being confronted with Hall he was driven
to confesse and being now asked in this audience how he could salve
this lowde perjurie : he aunswered that so longe as he thought they had
no proofe he was not bound to accuse himself , CHAMBER,I,225.014.578

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but when he saw they had proofe he stoode not longe in yt ,
CHAMBER,I,225.014.579

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then fell into a large discourse of defending aequivocations with
many weake and frivolous distinctions . CHAMBER,I,225.014.580

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The other example was of Fraunces Tresham , who in his confessions
having deeply accused Garnet , and now drawing to his end in the Towre
, his wife was permitted to have accesse to him , by whose meanes
<paren> as is thought </paren> not fowre howres before his death he
wrote a letter to my Lord of Salisberie , retracting whatsoever he had
saide of Garnet , protesting before God to whom he was now goinge , and
upon his soule and salvation that he had accused him falsly , and that
he had not seen him these sixteen yeares last past : whereas yt was
manifestly proved both-7 by Garnet himself , Mistris Vaux , and others
, that he had ben with him in three severall places this last yeare and
once not many dayes before this blow shold have ben geven .
CHAMBER,I,225.014.581

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And being now asked what he thought of this man , he smilingly
aunswered that he thought he ment to aequivocate .
CHAMBER,I,225.014.582

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In conclusion he was found guiltie : CHAMBER,I,225.014.583

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in truth behaved himself very gravely and temperatly for the manner
, as likewise he was used with goode respect and goode wordes , whether
yt were that the King mislikes that fowle railing and reproaching of
prisoners at the barre : or that they hope by fayre meanes to draw more
from him , for that he knowes much , and is thought yf he list he may
deserve his live . CHAMBER,I,225.014.584

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One thing I must not forget how my Lord Admirall nickt yt in sayeng to
him , Garnet thou hast don more goode in that pulpit this day <paren>
for he stoode in a pew by himself </paren> then in all the pulpits that
ever thou camst in . CHAMBER,I,225.014.585

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The three subsidies and sixe fifteens are now resolved on and agreed to
be payed in fowre yeares . CHAMBER,I,225.014.586

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is a declaration come forth of the Kings manner of proceeding with
the ministers attainted of treason in Scotland . CHAMBER,I,225.014.587

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Abington , Hall and another priest were sent downe the last weeke to
Worcester to be <P_I,226> tried at the assises there .
CHAMBER,I,226.014.588

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Justice Kingesmill died here the last weeke CHAMBER,I,226.014.589

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath dealt kindly with his Lady Hastings , leaving her all his
moveables <paren> some few legacies reserved </paren> and all his lands
and leases during her life , besides the inheritaunce of a lordship
better then a yeare to a younger daughter of hers that was his
playfellow . CHAMBER,I,226.014.590

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The earle of Devonshire left this life on Thursday night last , soone
and early for his yeares but late enough for himself ,
CHAMBER,I,226.014.591

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and happy had he ben yf he had gon two or three yeares since , before
the world was wearie of him , or that he had left that scandall behinde
him . CHAMBER,I,226.014.592

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was not longe sicke , past eight or ten dayes ,
CHAMBER,I,226.014.593

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and died of a burning feaver and putrefaction of his lunges , a defect
he never complained of . CHAMBER,I,226.014.594

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath left his Lady <paren> for so she is now generally held to be
</paren> a yeare and most of his moveables : CHAMBER,I,226.014.595

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and of five children <paren> that he fatherd upon him at the parting
from her former husband </paren> I do not heare he hath provided for
more then three , leaving to the eldest sonne <paren> as I heare
</paren> between three and fowre thousand pound a yeare , to another
younger a yeare , and to a daughter in monie . CHAMBER,I,226.014.596

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For his offices yt is thought his lieutenancie of Ireland is or $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} bestowed on the younge duke of Yorke , his government
of Portesmouth and his companie of horse in Ireland on the earle of
Mongomerie . CHAMBER,I,226.014.597

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The New Forest stands between the earle of Pembroke and the earle of
Southampton , and the mastership of the ordinaunce twixt the Lord
Chamberlain and the Lord Carew . CHAMBER,I,226.014.598

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other thinges there be which either are not bestowed , or come not
within my knowledge . CHAMBER,I,226.014.599

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I meane God willing to go the next weeke into Hartfordshire and take
part of the springe . CHAMBER,I,226.014.600

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my returne toward the terme you shall heare of me .
CHAMBER,I,226.014.601

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All your frends at Fulham are well . CHAMBER,I,226.014.602

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was there on Monday last , CHAMBER,I,226.014.603

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so wishing to you and yours I commit you to God .
CHAMBER,I,226.014.604

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 5=th= of Aprill . CHAMBER,I,226.014.605

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:52
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_014:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,226.014.606

<Q_CHM_A_1606_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_015> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,234>

{ED:85._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:Ware_Park,_October_15,_1606.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , Since my last from hence I made a start to London with Sir Henry
Fanshaw , CHAMBER,I,234.015.607

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and taried there but one night . CHAMBER,I,234.015.608

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My only errand was to put my self in reparations wherof I stoode in
great need : specially yf the sicknes shold increase or continue : in
which case I shold wish my self with you in those parts again ,
CHAMBER,I,234.015.609

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for you know what cold comfort and companie I find now adayes at
Knebworth : CHAMBER,I,234.015.610

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt will not be much better here when Sir Harry is at the terme ,
Sir Christofer Hatton and his Lady gon , <paren> as they are alredy
upon the point </paren> and my Lady Fanshaw <P_I,235> redy to lie downe
, and now so bigge that she can scant go up and downe stayres .
CHAMBER,I,235.015.611

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Though I wish and longe for your companie here yet these circumstances
considered , I thincke you better where you are , CHAMBER,I,235.015.612

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet here is a new kennell of houndes setting up , and store of
hawkes more then partridges ; and such a quoile about gardening , that
a man $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be ydle though he do but looke on , nor
greatly well occupied yt goes so slowly forward , CHAMBER,I,235.015.613

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet here have ben every day since my comming above forty men at
worke , CHAMBER,I,235.015.614

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the new garden is wholy translated , new levelled , and in a manner
transplanted , because most of the first trees were dead with being set
too deepe , and in the middest of yt in steede of a knot he is making a
fort , in perfect proportion , with his rampars , bulwarkes ,
counterscarpes and all other appurtenances , so that when yt is
finished , yt is like to prove an invincible peece of worke .
CHAMBER,I,235.015.615

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I found your brother Williams and your sister Alice at London and all
other frends in goode health : CHAMBER,I,235.015.616

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the only newes there is that they be framing and levelling Moore-field
into walkes , and are walling yt about bresthigh , and planting of
trees to make yt pleasant and shadie : CHAMBER,I,235.015.617

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Ned Wimarke sayes yt must serve for the womens exchaunge .
CHAMBER,I,235.015.618

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The States sincke apace CHAMBER,I,235.015.619

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for Berke was rendered for lacke of powder and munition :
CHAMBER,I,235.015.620

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there went out of yt sounde men , besides sicke and hurt .
CHAMBER,I,235.015.621

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They went away with ensignes displayed , matches lighted , certain
pieces of artillerie , and many other glorious conditions .
CHAMBER,I,235.015.622

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Count Maurice in the mean time attempted Venloo , by surprising a fort
CHAMBER,I,235.015.623

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and being entered the towne was beaten out again with the losse of men
. CHAMBER,I,235.015.624

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There be three rich shippes come into Holland out of the East Indies ,
having left as much goodes <paren> taken out of two carraques </paren>
in safe custodie as will lade sixe more . CHAMBER,I,235.015.625

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The plague begins to be hot in Paris : CHAMBER,I,235.015.626

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there is like to be a great dearth in Italie yf yt be not supplied
from these parts , CHAMBER,I,235.015.627

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the territorie of Rome , the kingdom of Naples , and Sicilia are in
great want alredy , which I thincke is the cheife cause that kepes the
Pope and the Venetians from blowes : CHAMBER,I,235.015.628

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
when I was at London I heard of certain letters that were sent to seeke
me out at Askot . CHAMBER,I,235.015.629

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not what they are nor whence . CHAMBER,I,235.015.630

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you make inquirie , CHAMBER,I,235.015.631

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and send them to your sister Alice , CHAMBER,I,235.015.632

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and forget not the violet apples to be sent to her likewise ,
CHAMBER,I,235.015.633

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for she <P_I,236> can find conveyance hither twise a weeke .
CHAMBER,I,236.015.634

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you impart to Sir Mighell Dormer yf you finde any thinge worth
his knowledge , CHAMBER,I,236.015.635

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so with all due remembraunce to him and my goode Lady I commit you
to God . CHAMBER,I,236.015.636

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From Ware-parke this 15=th= of October . CHAMBER,I,236.015.637

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,236.015.638

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:52
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:33
LETTER:CHAMBER_015:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my very goode frend Master Dudley Carleton geve these at Askot or
elswhere . CHAMBER,I,236.015.639

<Q_CHM_A_1608_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_016> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,252>

{ED:96._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_January_8,_1608.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , We had great hope of having you here this day ,
CHAMBER,I,252.016.640

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then I wold not have geven my part of the maske for many of theyre
places that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} present , CHAMBER,I,252.016.641

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I presume you and your Lady wold find easie passage beeing so
befrended , CHAMBER,I,252.016.642

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the shew is put of till Sonday by reason all thinges are not redy .
CHAMBER,I,252.016.643

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Whatsoever the devise may be , and what successe they may have in
theyre dauncing , yet you shold have ben sure to have seene great
riches in jewells , when one Lady and that under a barronnesse ,
<P_I,253> is saide to be furnished for better then an hundred thousand
pound , CHAMBER,I,253.016.644

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lady Arbella goes beyond her , CHAMBER,I,253.016.645

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Quene must not come behinde . CHAMBER,I,253.016.646

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Twelfth eve there was great golden play at court , no gamster
admitted that brought not at least . CHAMBER,I,253.016.647

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Mongomerie played the Kings monie CHAMBER,I,253.016.648

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wan him which he had for his labor : CHAMBER,I,253.016.649

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lord Montegle lost the Quene , Sir Robert Carie for the Prince ,
the earle of Salisberie , the Lord Buckhurst et sic de caeteris : so
that I heard of no winners but the King and Sir Frances Wolley who got
above $=l= {TEXT:800=li=} . CHAMBER,I,253.016.650

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King went a hawking journy yesterday to Tiballs
CHAMBER,I,253.016.651

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and returnes to morrow . CHAMBER,I,253.016.652

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Above Westminster the Thames is quite frosen over CHAMBER,I,253.016.653

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Archbishop came from Lambeth on Twelfth day over the yce to the
court . CHAMBER,I,253.016.654

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many fantasticall experiments are dayly put in practise , as certain
youths burnt a gallon of wine upon the yce and made all the passengers
partakers : CHAMBER,I,253.016.655

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the best is of an honest woman <paren> they say </paren> that had a
great longing to have her husband get her with child upon the Thames .
CHAMBER,I,253.016.656

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Fuller came foorth of the Fleet on Monday , very frolike , and
so joyfull that he wold not loose so much time from home as to go about
but wold needs passe over the river on foot , having kist the rod , and
made his submission modo et forma . CHAMBER,I,253.016.657

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We had plenty of preaching here this Christmas . CHAMBER,I,253.016.658

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop and the Deane performed theyre parts very well ,
CHAMBER,I,253.016.659

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Dr. Pasfeld was not much behind them , CHAMBER,I,253.016.660

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but your brother Dove swept the scriptures together upon heapes , as
one told me in that very phrase . CHAMBER,I,253.016.661

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Archdukes commissioners are saide to be at the Haghe alredy ,
Arembergh , Richardot , the frier Ney , Vereyken , a Spaniard or two ,
all to the number of seven or eight : CHAMBER,I,253.016.662

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is fasting and prayer in Holland for the goode successe , as
likewise generall processions all over on the other side .
CHAMBER,I,253.016.663

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Fanshaw and his Lady inquire often after you and Sir Rowland
Lytton , CHAMBER,I,253.016.664

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I do not fayle to performe duly what you injoyne me ;
CHAMBER,I,253.016.665

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet I was not there now these two dayes , beeing not able in a manner
to stirre out of doores , by <P_I,254> cutting the naile of my great
tooe too neere , which was my new mans newyeares-guift , which will
prove but a jade and an unluckie knave . CHAMBER,I,254.016.666

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I assure you I feare I must be faine to go to surgerie ,
CHAMBER,I,254.016.667

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have borne yt out as long as I can CHAMBER,I,254.016.668

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt proves every day worse , CHAMBER,I,254.016.669

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and puts me to great paine beeing swoln extreemly .
CHAMBER,I,254.016.670

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus you see how I make my moane to you as yf you could helpe .
CHAMBER,I,254.016.671

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There hath ben great feasting all this Christmas at Criplegate ,
CHAMBER,I,254.016.672

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and now for the upshoote I doubt your brother Williams hath got the
grudging of an ague . CHAMBER,I,254.016.673

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you thancke Sir Rowland Lytton for his goode remembrance .
CHAMBER,I,254.016.674

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wold have made bold with him for a doe but that I learned by the
keper how the world went , CHAMBER,I,254.016.675

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for any other provisions I wold be loth to trouble him , having so
litle to do in yt my self , and the whole matter beeing undertaken by
great , by certain stewards . CHAMBER,I,254.016.676

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I write in great haste CHAMBER,I,254.016.677

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so I pray you tell your goode Lady and the gentlewomen that I $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} stand upon ceremonies , CHAMBER,I,254.016.678

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but with harty goode wishes commend you all to Gods protection .
CHAMBER,I,254.016.679

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 8=th= of January late . . CHAMBER,I,254.016.680

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,254.016.681

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_016:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my assured goode frend Master Dudley Carleton geve these at
Knebworth . CHAMBER,I,254.016.682

<Q_CHM_A_1608_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_017> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,277>

{ED:107._TO_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_December_23,_1608.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir , We could not have Sir Rowland Lyttons companie here according to
appointment , by reason that as he was going to his coach his eyes grew
so sore that they could neither-1 indure ayre nor light ,
CHAMBER,I,277.017.683

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so he sent his authoritie to me to conclude with Sir William Borlas
what we shold thincke most convenient for theyre youths .
CHAMBER,I,277.017.684

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He sent me likewise ten pounds for you , which I have by me till I
heare how you will have yt disposed . CHAMBER,I,277.017.685

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thought I shold have heard from you this weeke how your bible came to
your hands , and how you like yt , CHAMBER,I,277.017.686

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but now I understand your boate is going away and I driven to a narrow
exigent . CHAMBER,I,277.017.687

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I met Sir Walter Cope on Wensday in Paules church-yard in his coach ,
CHAMBER,I,277.017.688

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he did us the favor to stay , CHAMBER,I,277.017.689

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<paren> for my brother was with me </paren> with whome he had
conference about monie matters beeing lately entred into a great
bargain with the King for ayeare in parsonages besides ayear he had
before . CHAMBER,I,277.017.690

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He and his consorts are called the contractors , CHAMBER,I,277.017.691

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have made shift for a great deale of monie on the sodain ,
CHAMBER,I,277.017.692

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet when all is don the world thincks they $will $be {TEXT:wilbe}
no great gainers . CHAMBER,I,277.017.693

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I moved a word to him about you . CHAMBER,I,277.017.694

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His aunswer was that he had you in remembrance to the Lord for Venice ,
the Archdukes or the Low-Countries , CHAMBER,I,277.017.695

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but aunswer was made yt were too great a leape , and that yt were more
fit you shold be first sent on some message : CHAMBER,I,277.017.696

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but your letter is not yet delivered , CHAMBER,I,277.017.697

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor I thincke never $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} , CHAMBER,I,277.017.698

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he parts still with a fayre protestation , that as God shall judge
him he is as carefull of you as of his brother : whom <paren> by the
way </paren> he hath now sent for up to undertake and underwrite with
him . CHAMBER,I,277.017.699

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The executing of Borghese is generally yll taken in Fraunce as
savouring of too much severitie , CHAMBER,I,277.017.700

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the sentence reade at his death was only for usurping the name and
armes of the familie of Borghesi : CHAMBER,I,277.017.701

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Nuncio himself sayes that yf he had thought they would have
used such rigor he wold not have prosecuted yt so far .
CHAMBER,I,277.017.702

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There be many epigrams and jests made of yt wherof I have only heard
one in Latin . CHAMBER,I,277.017.703

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French king hath lately had a sore fit <P_I,278> of the gowte .
CHAMBER,I,278.017.704

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Joyeuse the Capuchin is dead comming from Rome , CHAMBER,I,278.017.705

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the king deales earnestly with his daughter the young widow of
Montpensier for the Prince of Conde` . CHAMBER,I,278.017.706

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is very angrie with the Constable for marrieng his sonne to a great
heyre in Auvergne , and so preventing a match he meant with him for one
of his base daughters . CHAMBER,I,278.017.707

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Cranbourne was met the 15=th= of this moneth between Monstreul
and Abbeville in very fowle way and weather . CHAMBER,I,278.017.708

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King came to towne on Tewsday , CHAMBER,I,278.017.709

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the new-come Spaniard had audience the next day with all the
solemnitie of King , Quene , and all theyre children :
CHAMBER,I,278.017.710

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the matter seemed only complement , CHAMBER,I,278.017.711

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was don in lesse then half an howre . CHAMBER,I,278.017.712

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
What I have out of the Low-Countries you shall receve here inclosed .
CHAMBER,I,278.017.713

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt may be you have not heard that your countriman Taverner with one
Cobbs and others are in Norwich gaole for robbing about the court in a
coach with fowre horses whiles the King lay at Thetford .
CHAMBER,I,278.017.714

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so wishing a merry Christmas to you and your goode Lady I end in
post haste . CHAMBER,I,278.017.715

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 23=th= of December . CHAMBER,I,278.017.716

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,278.017.717

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:54
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:35
LETTER:CHAMBER_017:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To my assured frend Master Dudley Carleton geve these at Eton .
CHAMBER,I,278.017.718

<Q_CHM_A_1610_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_018> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,293>

{ED:117._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_January_13,_1610.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , I can make you no longe relation of our Christmas-games , beeing
growne such a house-dove that I stirre litle abrode specially to looke
after such sports . CHAMBER,I,293.018.719

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The barriers on twelfth night <paren> they say </paren> were well
performed , CHAMBER,I,293.018.720

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Prince behaved himself every way very well and gracefully .
CHAMBER,I,293.018.721

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The three prises were bestowed on the earle of Mongomerie , younge
Darcy <paren> sonne to the Lord Darcy </paren> and Sir Robert Gordon a
Scot , more in favor of the nation then for any due desert .
CHAMBER,I,293.018.722

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In stead of a plaudite they had an exceeding goode peale of ordinance
or chambers that graced the matter very much . CHAMBER,I,293.018.723

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next day the Prince with his assistants all in a liverie , and the
defendants in theyre best braverie rode in great pompe to convoy the
King to St. James whether he had invited him and all the court to
supper <paren> the Quene only beeing absent </paren>
CHAMBER,I,293.018.724

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there ended his table the allowance wherof from the publishing of
his challenge had ben a day . CHAMBER,I,293.018.725

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf the charge do not hinder yt he wold faine undertake another triumphe
or shew against the Kings day in March : CHAMBER,I,293.018.726

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Quene wold likewise in hand with a maske against Candlemas or
Shrovetide . CHAMBER,I,293.018.727

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She hath ben somwhat melancolike of late about her joynter that was not
fully to her liking , <P_I,294> wherupon to geve her contentment there
is a yeare added to yt out of the customes with a donative of to pay
her debts . CHAMBER,I,294.018.728

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Arbellas busines <paren> whatsoever yt was </paren> is ended ,
and she restored to her former place and grace ; CHAMBER,I,294.018.729

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the King gave her a cup-bord of plate better than for a newyearesgift
and markes to pay her debts , besides some yearly addition to her
maintenance , want beeing thought to be the cheifest cause of her
discontentment , though she be not altogether free from suspicion of
beeing collapsed . CHAMBER,I,294.018.730

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At a supper the last weeke made by the Lady Elizabeth Hatton there grew
a question between the earles of Argile and Pembroke about place ,
which the Scot maintaines to be his by senioritie , as beeing now
become all Brittaines : CHAMBER,I,294.018.731

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
our nobilitie begin to startle at yt , now yt touches theyre free-hold
, CHAMBER,I,294.018.732

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but for ought I heare the Kinge leaves yt as he findes yt ,
CHAMBER,I,294.018.733

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and refers yt over to the parliament ; which is now like to hold on ,
CHAMBER,I,294.018.734

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for younge Yelverton hath made his peace , CHAMBER,I,294.018.735

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and divers gentlemen that were put out of the commission of peace
<paren> for beeing over busie the last session </paren> are restored ,
and Sir H. Witherington released from his restraint or confining .
CHAMBER,I,294.018.736

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One Coeffeteau a French frier preacher to the king hath aunswered our
Kings booke very moderatly and modestly <paren> they say </paren>
CHAMBER,I,294.018.737

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet he is nothing satisfied with his fawning , CHAMBER,I,294.018.738

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor takes yt in better part then yf <paren> as he sayes </paren> he
shold have bid a T. in his teeth and then crie sir-VOC reverence .
CHAMBER,I,294.018.739

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We heare of a great assemblie of papists of late in Ireland , wher
there were between sixe and seven thousand together in an yland with
priests that had erected altars , CHAMBER,I,294.018.740

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but upon notice geven and some sent to discover , they vanisht away
CHAMBER,I,294.018.741

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and scattered . CHAMBER,I,294.018.742

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our East Indian marchants have lately built a goodly ship of above
tunne , to the launching wherof the King and Prince were invited and
had a bountifull banket : CHAMBER,I,294.018.743

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the King graced Sir Thomas Smith the Governor with a chaine in manner
of a collar better then , with his picture hanging at yt ,
CHAMBER,I,294.018.744

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and put yt about his necke with his owne handes , naming the great ship
Trades-increase , and the Prince a pinnesse of tunne <paren> built to
<P_I,295> wait upon her </paren> Pepper-corne . CHAMBER,I,295.018.745

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Dr. Abbot bishop of Lichfeld was elected to London the 5=th= of this
present . CHAMBER,I,295.018.746

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bishop of Ely is set aworke to replie to Cardinall Bellarmines
aunswer to the Kings booke , wherof I perceve he makes no great account
, but thinckes that either the man is much crased from that he was , or
els that he did yt with a contemptuous negligence .
CHAMBER,I,295.018.747

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hope we shall have his sermon upon the 4=th= to the Galatians 4=th=
verse , preached on Christmas day last with great applause :
CHAMBER,I,295.018.748

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the King with much importunitie had the copie delivered him on Tewsday
last before his going toward Roiston , CHAMBER,I,295.018.749

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayes he will lay yt still under his pillow . CHAMBER,I,295.018.750

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
your Lordship and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,295.018.751

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 13=th= of January . CHAMBER,I,295.018.752

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,295.018.753

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_018:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces geve these at the
Haghe . CHAMBER,I,295.018.754

<Q_CHM_A_1610_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_019> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,297>

{ED:119._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_May_2,_1610.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , Since my last comming to towne I receved yours of the 21=th= of
Aprill CHAMBER,I,297.019.755

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and find thereby great likelihoode of new troubles in those parts ,
which yf they go forward I feare will draw all Christendom into the
quarrell , wherin we for our parts are fitter to skirmish with the pen
then with the sword , and readier to uphold our side with wordes and
wishes , then with armes or other reall assistance .
CHAMBER,I,297.019.756

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane time I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} conceave what shold move
the French king to ingage himself so far in a busines that no more
concernes him , and at these yeares <paren> as yt were de gayete` de
coeur </paren> to thrust himself into so difficult a warre : the
preparations wherof <paren> they say </paren> make his very frends
feare some further misterie . CHAMBER,I,297.019.757

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet beleve that he is in so goode earnest ,
but that when he hath made a great noise in the world he $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} content to put water in his wine , and thincke that motus
praestat componere fluctus . CHAMBER,I,297.019.758

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Treasurer hath sent over his secretarie Kirkham to take order
to furnish the Lord Cranbourne with all necessaries to follow the
French king in this journy , CHAMBER,I,297.019.759

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and more of our court gallants talke of taking the same course yf the
viage hold . CHAMBER,I,297.019.760

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indeed yt were fitter they had some place abrode to vent theyre
superfluous valour then to brabble so much as they do here at home :
CHAMBER,I,297.019.761

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for in one weeke we had three or fowre great quarrells ,
CHAMBER,I,297.019.762

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the first twixt the earles of Southampton and Mongomerie that fell out
at tennis , where the racketts flew about theyre <P_I,298> eares ,
CHAMBER,I,298.019.763

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the matter was taken up and compounded by the King without further
bloudshed , CHAMBER,I,298.019.764

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the matter was not so easilie ended twixt younge Egerton eldest
sonne to Sir John , and one Morgan a lawiers sonne of goode state : the
first beeing left dead in the feild , and the other sort hurt ,
CHAMBER,I,298.019.765

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be bailed nor dispensed withall but
that he lies still by yt in Newgate . CHAMBER,I,298.019.766

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Norris likewise went into the feild with Peregrin Willoughby
upon an old reckening , CHAMBER,I,298.019.767

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hurt him daungerously in the shoulder . CHAMBER,I,298.019.768

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The last widow Lady Dorset found the way to the Fleet again , where she
lay sixe or seven dayes for pressing into the privie chamber and
importuning the King contrary to commaundment . CHAMBER,I,298.019.769

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here was one Peter Lambert a swaggering companion hangd the weeke
before Easter for killing one Hamden <paren> a Low-countrie lieutenant
</paren> CHAMBER,I,298.019.770

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and died forsoth a romish catholike . CHAMBER,I,298.019.771

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His frends caried him in a coach from the gallowes
CHAMBER,I,298.019.772

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold have buried him the next day in Christ-church
CHAMBER,I,298.019.773

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but were forbidden by the bishop . CHAMBER,I,298.019.774

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now upon a rumor that he was seene in Fraunce , the King suspected
there might be cunning and cautelous dealing in his execution ,
CHAMBER,I,298.019.775

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold not be satisfied till the sheriffes of London in the presence
of much people tooke him up where he was buried , CHAMBER,I,298.019.776

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and upon view found he was sufficiently hanged . CHAMBER,I,298.019.777

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here were privie seales redy printed to be sent abrode ,
CHAMBER,I,298.019.778

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but upon better advise there is meanes found that our Aldermen furnish
the King presently with upon securitie of the customes .
CHAMBER,I,298.019.779

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our parlement is at a stand CHAMBER,I,298.019.780

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and knowes not <paren> as they say </paren> de quel bois faire fleches
. CHAMBER,I,298.019.781

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Theyre offer of yearly for wardes and tenures is neither refused nor
accepted , CHAMBER,I,298.019.782

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but withall they were geven to understand by the Lord Treasurer , that
the King besides that must have two hundred thousand poundes more of
yearly support , which makes them pull in theyre hornes and know not
what to say , CHAMBER,I,298.019.783

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the realme growes poore , CHAMBER,I,298.019.784

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and trafficke decayes apace , insomuch that the customes of London are
fallen this yeare , and fewer ships arrived by , so that this
proposition breedes much discontentment alredy , and I am sory to see
us in this as in all the rest to grow so fast into the French fashion
of lowde-speaking and base suffering . CHAMBER,I,298.019.785

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our St. Georges feast passed without making any new knights , there
beeing no place voyde but only that of the Lord <P_I,299> Scroope .
CHAMBER,I,299.019.786

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next day the King went toward Thetford , where he now remaines .
CHAMBER,I,299.019.787

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the mean time what becomes of your ambassadors , or how they are
entertained I know not CHAMBER,I,299.019.788

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor greatly inquire after such matters , CHAMBER,I,299.019.789

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I assure you I have not so much as seene the face of any ambassador
to my knowledge since I was with your Lordship at Sir Noell Carons .
CHAMBER,I,299.019.790

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heard two or three dayes since that there is a new Spanish lidger
come , CHAMBER,I,299.019.791

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what he is or where he lodges I know not . CHAMBER,I,299.019.792

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The solemnitie of creating the Prince of Wales is appointed to be the
day after Trinitie Sonday . CHAMBER,I,299.019.793

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Dudley Carleton and his Lady are now packing away ,
CHAMBER,I,299.019.794

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and make account about a fortnight hence to set forward .
CHAMBER,I,299.019.795

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with remembrance of my best service to your goode Lady I commend you
and all yours to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,299.019.796

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this second of May . CHAMBER,I,299.019.797

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships most assured to commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,I,299.019.798

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_019:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces geve these at the
Haghe . CHAMBER,I,299.019.799

<Q_CHM_A_1610_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_020> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,299>

{ED:120._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_May_24,_1610.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , I have ben somwhat the more slacke of writing by reason of Sir
Rowland Lyttons sicknes , who hath lien here this moneth in very
daungerous and almost desperate estate , which <paren> together with
the continuall companie and visitations </paren> hath so distracted me
that I could find neither time nor place to remember my self or other
frends : CHAMBER,I,299.020.800

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but now <P_I,300> thanckes be to God the worst is past though he
continue weake still and not able to remove till he recover more
strength . CHAMBER,I,300.020.801

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This spring hath ben hitherto very crasie and full of infirmities
specially colds , which have ben , and still are very generall , wherof
I have had my part now a goode while , CHAMBER,I,300.020.802

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am not yet so cleane rid , but that yt still lingers upon me .
CHAMBER,I,300.020.803

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet <paren> God $be {TEXT:he} thancked </paren> the infection kepes
within ordinarie compasse , CHAMBER,I,300.020.804

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and these popular diseases kill few of the better sort ,
CHAMBER,I,300.020.805

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only Judge Daniell and Baron Sotherton are lately dead rather of age
then any violent sicknes . CHAMBER,I,300.020.806

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lamentable losse of the French king doth affect us here very much ,
CHAMBER,I,300.020.807

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and our King and whole court have put on theyre habits of mourning now
five or sixe dayes since . CHAMBER,I,300.020.808

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The young Lord Crambourne tooke occasion upon this accident to come
posting away , which yf there had ben any stirring was not the meanes
to avoyde but rather to run into daunger , CHAMBER,I,300.020.809

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the world apprehends he had another errand homeward , and a
stronger adamant to draw him hither , the desire to gather the first
fruites of his fayre younge Lady . CHAMBER,I,300.020.810

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The solemnitie of creating the Prince of Wales is appointed the 4=th=
of the next moneth , when there $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} 24 new knights
of the Bath made , wherof there is like to be better choise then
heretofore , CHAMBER,I,300.020.811

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for none $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} admitted but noblie discended .
CHAMBER,I,300.020.812

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene is preparing and practising a new maske against that time ,
CHAMBER,I,300.020.813

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the younge Duke of Brunswicke $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} returned from
his journy of visiting Oxford , Bath , Bristow , Salisburie and those
other western parts . CHAMBER,I,300.020.814

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Touching parliament matters I know not what to write , seeing they have
sit now foureteen weekes to so litle purpose . CHAMBER,I,300.020.815

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Of late there have ben some tempests raised about theyre medling with
impositions , which by a message from the King they were forbiden to
deal in , CHAMBER,I,300.020.816

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but because the message came not modo et forma , nor immediatly <paren>
as they tooke yt </paren> from the King they did in a sort refuse to
take notice of yt . Wherupon grew more messages and much contestation ,
CHAMBER,I,300.020.817

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but in the end they saw that motus praestat componere fluctus ,
CHAMBER,I,300.020.818

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with a moderate <P_I,301> aunswer pacified his Majestie so that the
21=th= of this present he made another speach to both the houses , but
so litle to theyre satisfaction , that I heare yt bred generally much
discomfort ; to see our monarchicall powre and regall prerogative
strained so high and made so transcendent every way , that yf the
practise shold follow the positions , we are not like to leave to our
successors that freedome we receved from our forefathers , nor make
account of any thing we have longer then they list that govern .
CHAMBER,I,301.020.819

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Many bold passages have ben since in the lower house , and among the
rest a wish that this speach might never come in print :
CHAMBER,I,301.020.820

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what yssue this busines now in hand will come unto , God knowes ,
CHAMBER,I,301.020.821

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for besides his Majestie some great persons are ingaged in this matter
of impositions , CHAMBER,I,301.020.822

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and no doubt will maintain theyre doings , knowing that though men
storme never so much yet vanae sine viribus irae .
CHAMBER,I,301.020.823

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is an unhappy quarrell fallen out twixt Sir John Gray a worthy
gentleman and frend of mine , and one Sir Henry Hastinges .
CHAMBER,I,301.020.824

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare they be both gon over to trie yt out in the Lowe Countries .
CHAMBER,I,301.020.825

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf your favor may stand Sir John Gray any way in steade , I beseech you
let him have yt to the full , as well for my sake as his owne , beeing
a man of such desert and so generally well thought of , that whatsoever
goode you do him is don to many , and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} so reputed
, CHAMBER,I,301.020.826

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed he hath that interest in me that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
but wish him all the goode in the world . CHAMBER,I,301.020.827

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The winde is come about with Dudley Carleton , CHAMBER,I,301.020.828

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope will not serve to cary him into Ireland ,
CHAMBER,I,301.020.829

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is now in consideration to go for Venice or Brussells ,
CHAMBER,I,301.020.830

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thincke yt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} in his owne choice whether of
the twaine , CHAMBER,I,301.020.831

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I perceve his inclination is rather to the last as beeing neerer
home : CHAMBER,I,301.020.832

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
when the matter is more ripe I will write you more :
CHAMBER,I,301.020.833

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
in the meane time wishing all health and happines to yourself , your
good Lady and all yours : I commend your Lordship to the protection of
the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,301.020.834

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 24=th= of May . CHAMBER,I,301.020.835

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,301.020.836

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:56
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_020:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces geve these at the
Haghe . CHAMBER,I,301.020.837

<Q_CHM_A_1611_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_021> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,302>

{ED:121._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:Venice,_February_15,_1611.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord , Your letters of the 27=th= of the last came the
last weeke , wherto my Lord Ambassador here made aunswer presently ,
imparting such newes as were then current , CHAMBER,I,302.021.838

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
els had I taken yt upon me , though utterly unfurnished of any matter
of worth , but only to have geven you notice of the young Lord of
Cranbournes comming towards you , where I make account he $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} before this come to your handes , CHAMBER,I,302.021.839

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he makes all the haste homeward he can , so that neither wayes nor
weather can hinder him , CHAMBER,I,302.021.840

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I doubt you will not be able to hold him long beeing caried away
not only velis et remis <paren> as they say </paren> but even upon
winges of earnest desire , as well to satisfie others as himself that
attend him in great devotion , as redditum postliminio , and restored
almost from death to life . CHAMBER,I,302.021.841

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here hath ben much speach of certain religious persons executed in
England , wherof we have not a word from thence , CHAMBER,I,302.021.842

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the matter was made so odious and every circumstance so amplified
by certain Romish instruments , that yt made generally an yll
impression ; wherupon on Monday last my Lord Ambassador went to the
college and had audience , upon no other ground and to no other end but
to represse these slaunderous rumors by justifieng the Kings procedings
in these causes , which he did <paren> as yt seemes </paren> very
effectually , the whole face of the assemblie beeing much altered ere
he left from that he found yt at his comming in , and the Duke with a
long and grave aunswer approving in a manner whatsoever he had saide .
CHAMBER,I,302.021.843

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This duke is esteemed one of the most sufficient men of this age ,
CHAMBER,I,302.021.844

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed yt is very rare and almost miraculous to see a man of his
yeares <paren> drawing toward fowrescore </paren> of that dexteritie
and pregnancie of wit and memorie , and withall of such redines of
tongue and elocution , CHAMBER,I,302.021.845

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I doubt whether theyre whole Senate <paren> yf he were gon </paren>
could affoord them such another al parangone . CHAMBER,I,302.021.846

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By the last letters from Constantinople the Persian victorie is much
abated , from the overthrow and <P_I,303> slaughter of Turkes to and
those but straglers , wheras the maine force continued untoucht , and
passed on toward Tauris , which the Persian himself is saide to have
burned downe to the ground beeing out of hope to defend yt .
CHAMBER,I,303.021.847

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Savoy armes still , CHAMBER,I,303.021.848

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to what end and purpose , neither himself <paren> I thincke
</paren> nor any body els that I heare of , can so much as guesse .
CHAMBER,I,303.021.849

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is an ambassador going from him into England , who perhaps will
geve a reason of his dooings , CHAMBER,I,303.021.850

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for other reason of his sending we see none : though some aime at
matters of mariages wherof there is litle apparance .
CHAMBER,I,303.021.851

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He raises forces in Fraunce and in the State of Milan :
CHAMBER,I,303.021.852

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and payes them in French and Spanish coine . CHAMBER,I,303.021.853

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf his desseign be upon Geneva , mee thinckes the French shold not
permit yt , nor the Spaniard neither to see him any way greater , unles
he were of a more quiet humor . CHAMBER,I,303.021.854

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have nothing els but all due remembrance to my goode Lady , with my
best wishes to you and yours : CHAMBER,I,303.021.855

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I commend you to Gods holy protection . CHAMBER,I,303.021.856

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Venice this 15=th= of February . CHAMBER,I,303.021.857

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,303.021.858

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:57
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_021:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All Illus=mo= et Eccel=mo= Sig=or= il Cavaliere Ridolfo Winwod
Ambasciatore della Ma=ta= della Gran brettagna appresso gli Stati Uniti
dei Paesi Bassi a la Haga . CHAMBER,I,303.021.859

<Q_CHM_A_1611_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_022> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,303>

{ED:122._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:Augsburg,_September_3,_1611.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Yt were too long a peece of worke to geve you a
particuler account of our hard and tedious journy , beeing indeed the
hardest taske that ever I undertoke by reason of the suspicion of
sicknes in divers places where we were to passe , so that we were
forced to seeke by-wayes and ride somtimes all night thorough darke and
dangerous passages : CHAMBER,I,303.022.860

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the worst of all was that when we thought our selves past daunger
then we were neerest , beeing stayed upon the borders <P_I,304> of
Bavier , and not suffered to passe thorough any towne nor so much as a
village , but were faine to seeke unknowne wayes and travayle over the
feildes , till both we and our horses were utterly tired ,
CHAMBER,I,304.022.861

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet with all these difficulties I thancke God we came to this towne
the second of this present in reasonable health but well wearied ,
CHAMBER,I,304.022.862

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and now when I hoped to finde rest , I have ben all this day tired with
seeing of sights , which are here many well worth the seeing :
CHAMBER,I,304.022.863

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to morow morning God willing are to go hence towards Franckford
beeing loth to leave this companie , which is reasonable goode and but
indifferent drinckers . CHAMBER,I,304.022.864

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I delivered Sig=or= Veltzers letter CHAMBER,I,304.022.865

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and had litle conference with him , for that his collegue came to visit
him when we were newly set to yt . CHAMBER,I,304.022.866

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He seemes a man of sound understanding and very courteous .
CHAMBER,I,304.022.867

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hochselius is keper of the librarie , CHAMBER,I,304.022.868

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall kepes a schoole . CHAMBER,I,304.022.869

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He dined with me this day , CHAMBER,I,304.022.870

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and found better entertainment every way with the Dutch then I could
geve him for lacke of Latin . CHAMBER,I,304.022.871

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I perceve yt was not Thomas your sister Williams man that plaide him
that jades tricke but some other whose name is Tomson ,
CHAMBER,I,304.022.872

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and one Horwoode told him that tale that he dwelt with your sister ,
whom I meane to seeke out in London and learne why he did yt .
CHAMBER,I,304.022.873

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Horne gave me commission to buy him certain bookes heere ,
wherin I used Hochselius help , CHAMBER,I,304.022.874

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be found here but only certain peeces
of Zanchius and not his whole workes , so that yt must rest till I come
to Francford . CHAMBER,I,304.022.875

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The first night we parted from you we overtooke Ottenio Bon at
Conegliano attended and guarded like a proveditor or Generall .
CHAMBER,I,304.022.876

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my goode Lady , Mistris Carleton and
your nephew I commend you all to Gods holy protection .
CHAMBER,I,304.022.877

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From Augusta this 3=d= of September 1611 . CHAMBER,I,304.022.878

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,304.022.879

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:57
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:38
LETTER:CHAMBER_022:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Al Illus=mo= et eccell=mo= Sig=or= l'Ambasciatore della maesta della
gran.-Brettagna a Venetia . CHAMBER,I,304.022.880

<Q_CHM_A_1612_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_023> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,332>

{ED:133._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_12,_1612.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord , As I was setling to write to you I receved your
letter of the 17=th= of the last , CHAMBER,I,332.023.881

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and am sending your inclosed to Master Clarenceaux with whom I had long
conference yesterday at <P_I,333> Westminster . CHAMBER,I,333.023.882

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When we meet next I will further your busines what I may :
CHAMBER,I,333.023.883

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I only moved a question to him about the earle of Marres armes ,
CHAMBER,I,333.023.884

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they were drawne by younge Scarlet your sister Williams old
neighbor . CHAMBER,I,333.023.885

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thancke you for the copie of the bishops letter which I receved in
your former and have not imparted yt to any body :
CHAMBER,I,333.023.886

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
at my last beeing with him he asked me newes of Dr. Marta , of whom I
could say nothing , CHAMBER,I,333.023.887

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have learned since that beeing a canonist and having written in
favor of the Popes usurping pretensions , he is now come to Padua and
hath turned his stile the other way . CHAMBER,I,333.023.888

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sig=or= Candidos letter requires no present aunswer ,
CHAMBER,I,333.023.889

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither am I very forward to returne only complements , beeing growne
such a truand that more then his letter I have not reade five lines of
Italian since I saw you . CHAMBER,I,333.023.890

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King is expected here on Friday . CHAMBER,I,333.023.891

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His booke was finished the last weeke , but not published till this day
, and that only in French , the Latin and English copies beeing yet in
the presse : CHAMBER,I,333.023.892

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
an hundred of them were sent away with all speed on Saterday to Sir
Rafe Winwod , by whose meanes I could wish you had one .
CHAMBER,I,333.023.893

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Otherwise I wold have adventured yt , though yt be with the biggest for
a packet . CHAMBER,I,333.023.894

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His Majestie doth Sir Rafe all right and favor as well in setting downe
his propositions and letters as in geving allowance to his course and
proceeding . CHAMBER,I,333.023.895

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One Sheldon a priest hath lately set out a booke of motives that made
him relinquish the Romish church . CHAMBER,I,333.023.896

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And one Warmington that was chaplain to Cardinall Allen hath written a
treatise in defence of the oath of alleageance , and in verification of
Sixtus Quintus oration upon the death of Henry the third so stoutly
denied by Bellarmin . CHAMBER,I,333.023.897

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heard yesterday of nine ships with Spaniards come into the Downes ,
CHAMBER,I,333.023.898

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and are going into the Low Countries to renforce theyre garrisons .
CHAMBER,I,333.023.899

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Spanish ambassadors sister and daughter in law whom you met upon
Barham Downe , went away the last weeke toward Brussells without taking
leave or bidding the Quene farewell . CHAMBER,I,333.023.900

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
About the mids of March <P_I,334> the Quene meaneth to go toward the
Bath , CHAMBER,I,334.023.901

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lord Treasurer and Lord Chamberlain are saide to have the same
purpose , which $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} a great hinderance to the
ordinarie customers of that place . CHAMBER,I,334.023.902

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last weeke fowre goode ships went hence for the East Indies ,
CHAMBER,I,334.023.903

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but missed some of theyre mariners , who seasing on a Low-Countrie
vessell that lay in the river , have caried her away no man knowes
whether . CHAMBER,I,334.023.904

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is a lotterie in hand for the furthering of the Virginia viage ,
and an under-companie erecting for the trade of the Bermudes , which
have chaunged theyre name twise within this moneth , beeing first
christned Virginiola as a member of that plantation , but now lately
resolved to be called Sommer Ilands , as well in respect of the
continuall temperat ayre , as in remembrance of Sir George Sommers that
died there . CHAMBER,I,334.023.905

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady of Shrewsberie is still in the Towre rather upon wilfulnes ,
then upon any great matter she is charged withall :
CHAMBER,I,334.023.906

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only the King is resolute that she shall aunswer to certain
interrogatories , CHAMBER,I,334.023.907

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and she is as obstinate to make none , nor to be examined .
CHAMBER,I,334.023.908

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The other weeke a younge mignon of Sir Pexall Brockas did penance at
Paules Crosse , whom he had entertained and abused since she was twelve
yeares old CHAMBER,I,334.023.909

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this last Sonday Mall Cut-purse a notorious bagage <paren> that
used to go in mans apparell and challenged the feild of divers gallants
</paren> was brought to the same place , where she wept bitterly and
seemed very penitent , CHAMBER,I,334.023.910

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is since doubted she was maudelin druncke , beeing discovered to
have tipled of three quarts of sacke before she came to her penaunce :
CHAMBER,I,334.023.911

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
she had the daintiest preacher or ghostly father that ever I saw in
pulpit , one Ratcliffe of Brazen Nose in Oxford , a likelier man to
have led the revells in some ynne of court then to be where he was ,
CHAMBER,I,334.023.912

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the best is he did extreem badly , CHAMBER,I,334.023.913

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so wearied the audience that the best part went away ,
CHAMBER,I,334.023.914

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the rest taried rather to heare Mall Cutpurse then him .
CHAMBER,I,334.023.915

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Bodley hath gotten a graunt of the Stationers to have one
copie of every booke that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} printed for his
librarie , CHAMBER,I,334.023.916

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath prevayled with Sir John Bennet to undertake the building of
the schooles at Oxford , by collections from frends , and with the help
of commutations and legacies to pious uses belonging to his office .
CHAMBER,I,334.023.917

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know <P_I,335> not whether you have heard that Dr. Maxie is Deane of
Windsor : or that Charles Paget is dead , and left a goode state to
certain nephewes by his sister : or that a sonne of the bishop of
Bristowes his eldest , of 19 or yeare old killed himself with a knife
to avoyde the disgrace of breeching , which his mother or mother in law
<paren> I know not whether </paren> wold needs have put him to for
losing his monie at tennis . CHAMBER,I,335.023.918

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I was here making an end CHAMBER,I,335.023.919

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but you shall have word or two more out of Master Gents letter from
Oxford , of the death of Master Frier who lay long sicke of the flixe
and strangurie , which he fell into by greife and fretting with our
bishop of Oxford for the suit of Water-Eaton , his house new built
there , and land which is worth at least a yeare , that is like all to
be lost or els to be new purchased in a manner . CHAMBER,I,335.023.920

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This went so neere him , that yt drave him into these diseases in great
extremitie , CHAMBER,I,335.023.921

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he died upon Saterday last most pittifully in divers respects :
CHAMBER,I,335.023.922

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
both for great paines and no quietnes of mind : he renounced all
religions , papistrie , protestancie , puritanisme and all other ,
CHAMBER,I,335.023.923

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tooke himself only to God , CHAMBER,I,335.023.924

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so spitting out his lunges , went away in furie and blaspheming the
priest , by which name he called our bishop : CHAMBER,I,335.023.925

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this is Master Gents narration in his owne wordes .
CHAMBER,I,335.023.926

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He writes another thing som what straunge , that Dr. Rive warden of
New-college will geve over his house , and betake himself to his
personages in the countrie . CHAMBER,I,335.023.927

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This inclosed paper is of Hoskings dooing . CHAMBER,I,335.023.928

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Though I have no great tast in yt myself , yet perhaps you may find
more : CHAMBER,I,335.023.929

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the wittes of the age esteem yt very much . CHAMBER,I,335.023.930

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so with all due remembrance to my Lady and Mistris Carleton I
commit you to Gods holy protection . CHAMBER,I,335.023.931

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 12=th= of February 1611 . CHAMBER,I,335.023.932

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,335.023.933

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is the last day of the terme CHAMBER,I,335.023.934

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet your brother Williams $can $not {TEXT:cannot} get your monie ,
which drives him into dumpes somtimes , and makes him say yt is a
strange world , CHAMBER,I,335.023.935

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I doubt we are not yet at the worst . CHAMBER,I,335.023.936

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_023:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight his Majesties
ambassador at Venice . CHAMBER,I,335.023.937

<Q_CHM_A_1612_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_024> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,366>

{ED:144._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_July_9,_1612.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The Spanish ambassador Don Pedro de Zuniga marques
de Villa Flores had his first audience on Sonday last at Hampton court
, wherin he was very short and in a manner did only shew his letters of
credence , referring the rest of his message to a more private hearing
: which is appointed him to morrow at Whitehall , whether the King
comes this day for that purpose , having past all this weeke at Windsor
and therabout . CHAMBER,I,366.024.938

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King makes haste to dispatch him , CHAMBER,I,366.024.939

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and when he hath heard what he can say , meanes to invite him to
Tiballs , and feast him there on Sonday , and so to dismisse him .
CHAMBER,I,366.024.940

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have yt from a goode hand that <paren> besides matter of ceremonie
and acquainting the King with the reasons of these late contracts with
Fraunce </paren> a principall part of his errand is to cleere himself
of some imputations laide upon him by the late Lord Treasurer about the
powder treason , and to have cried quittance with him <paren> yf he had
ben alive </paren> in accusing him of some unwarrantable practises .
CHAMBER,I,366.024.941

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He lies at the Ambassador lidgers house , refusing to be lodged or
defrayed by the King because he understoode his entertainment was not
like to be aunswerable in every point to that of the Duke of Buillon .
CHAMBER,I,366.024.942

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is generally looked for that he will <P_I,367> expostulate about our
planting in Virginia , wherin there will need no great contestation ,
seeing yt is to be feared that that action will fall to the ground of
yt self , by the extreem beastly ydlenes of our nation , which <paren>
notwithstanding any cost or diligence used to support them </paren>
will rather die and starve then be brought to any labor or industrie to
maintain themselves . CHAMBER,I,367.024.943

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Two or three of the last ships that came thence bring nothing but
discomfort , CHAMBER,I,367.024.944

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and that Sir Thomas Gates and Sir Thomas Dale are quite out of hart ,
CHAMBER,I,367.024.945

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to mend the matter not past five dayes since here arrived a ship
with ten men , who <paren> beeing sent foorth to fish for theyre
releife and having taken great store </paren> , have geven them the
slip and run away , and fill the towne with yll reports , which will
hinder that busines more then the Lotterie or any other art they can
use for the present will further yt : CHAMBER,I,367.024.946

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet they have taken goode order to have these run-awayes
apprehended and punished or at least sent backe again .
CHAMBER,I,367.024.947

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Elphinston that was Secretarie of Scotland died much about the same
time with the Lord Treasurer . CHAMBER,I,367.024.948

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His reversion of Sir John Ropers office is graunted to Vicount
Rochester and Sir John Harrington . CHAMBER,I,367.024.949

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I begin to feare that we shall not hold Sir Thomas Bodley long ,
CHAMBER,I,367.024.950

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for me thinckes he droupes very fast and his legges swell with the
dropsie and the scurvie , CHAMBER,I,367.024.951

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall Dr. Atkins hath don him some wrong of late with an
unseasonable and unreasonable purge that I doubt hath overthrowne him
more then his disease : CHAMBER,I,367.024.952

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he hath now the advise and consultations of all the best phisicians
about this towne . CHAMBER,I,367.024.953

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Wotton is not yet come home CHAMBER,I,367.024.954

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but here is great expectation of him . CHAMBER,I,367.024.955

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The common crie is upon him and Sir Thomas Lakes to be Secretaries ,
which hang yet in such suspence that the wisest know not which way to
take . CHAMBER,I,367.024.956

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet some are of opinion that the later is out of hope , and that he
hath had his aunswer , though he have offered fayre for yt , and raised
his price since the comming of the Spaniard , wherupon he makes shew
that he meanes to retire himself and geve over courting , and they say
hath alredy surrendred his place of the signet to Master Kirkham .
CHAMBER,I,367.024.957

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Others on the contrarie geve out that he is so far from forsaking the
court that he is alredy in possession of the Lord Treasurers lodgings
at Whitehall , and makes full account to succeed him as Secretarie .
CHAMBER,I,367.024.958

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am neither so wise nor so well informed as to reconcile these
differences , CHAMBER,I,367.024.959

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I heare my part how matters passe , CHAMBER,I,367.024.960

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thincke him <P_I,368> as far from yt as another , as well in
respect there is no opinion of his soundnes in religion , as for other
causes , but specially for that his Xantippe is so well knowne and
blased , that I thincke she is a principall barre to his preferment :
CHAMBER,I,368.024.961

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and indeed they say she hath plaide her prises of late and beaten her
eldest sonne outragiously , who is alredy contracted to Master Watsons
daughter . CHAMBER,I,368.024.962

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And now though I am loth to unsay that which I was so assuredly
perswaded of , yet rebus sic stantibus , I must tell you that our goode
frend Sir Rafe is where he was , and upon the point of returning whence
he came : CHAMBER,I,368.024.963

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
let the losse and disgrace light where yt will , CHAMBER,I,368.024.964

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he is the same man still , and no way daunted or dejected .
CHAMBER,I,368.024.965

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King hath used him very graciously , CHAMBER,I,368.024.966

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and geves him as goode wordes as is possible , that his absence shall
not prejudice him , CHAMBER,I,368.024.967

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yet there is ever periculum in mora , CHAMBER,I,368.024.968

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though himself and his frends are exceding confident upon these
promises , yet there is no certaintie to be made de futuris
contingentibus . CHAMBER,I,368.024.969

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I assure you there be a number that know him no more then by name ,
that are more troubled with yt then himself : CHAMBER,I,368.024.970

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and how the world is come about yt were hard to devine ,
CHAMBER,I,368.024.971

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but there have ben straunge stratagems used , and some such that shold
scant be beleved , CHAMBER,I,368.024.972

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but that former experience hath made yt probable ,
CHAMBER,I,368.024.973

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Horace hath saide long since Nam fuit ante Helenam et ct .
CHAMBER,I,368.024.974

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He was on Tewsday with the Quene who used him extraordinarilie well ,
and had long talke with him , and commaunded him to come to her again
before his departure ; CHAMBER,I,368.024.975

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yesterday he tooke his leave of the Prince CHAMBER,I,368.024.976

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and had the same usage , CHAMBER,I,368.024.977

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to morrow he attends the King for his finall dispatch .
CHAMBER,I,368.024.978

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the
protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,368.024.979

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 9=th= of July 1612 . CHAMBER,I,368.024.980

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,368.024.981

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_024:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight his Majesties
Ambassador at Venice . CHAMBER,I,368.024.982

<Q_CHM_A_1612_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_025> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,373>

{ED:147._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_August_10,_1612.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : The first sight and outside of your letter was
very pleasing to me , because yt gave me assurance that you were safely
arrived , which <paren> considering the fowle weather that followed the
next night after your embarquing </paren> was no small comfort ,
CHAMBER,I,373.025.983

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I assure you I was en peine in respect of the daunger and hard
passage that you must nedes indure , CHAMBER,I,373.025.984

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but my best hope was that those northwest windes wold force you to make
for Flushing , which yf you had don in time no doubt you might have
recovered the harboure before the maine tempest , and avoyded much
hasard . CHAMBER,I,373.025.985

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Well , God be thancked yt was no worse , CHAMBER,I,373.025.986

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope you shall have the same successe and like deliverance from
the daunger that now threatens you by my Ladies sicknes , wherin I
apprehend your greife and anguish , and pray hartely that yt may please
God to lengthen her dayes and restore her to perfect health : wherof I
have the more confidence and almost assured hope , for that she hath
the earnest prayers of so many vertuous and well affected frends .
CHAMBER,I,373.025.987

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am newly returned from a pettie progresse to Askot , where I had no
great joy to continue , as beeing sory to see so much representation of
ruine , in a place where I had heretofore taken so much delight .
CHAMBER,I,373.025.988

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I made thence a step to Oxford where all things flourish as fast ,
specially the new librarie which is a handsome and substantiall
building : as likewise Master Wadhams new college wold have proved a
fayre fabricke yf yt had ben as well placed and as well contrived as yt
might easily have ben : CHAMBER,I,373.025.989

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the greatest alteration me thincks is at Marten college where they
have ben at great cost and made a fayre square . CHAMBER,I,373.025.990

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt was my yll hap to misse Sir Thomas Bodley both here and there ,
whether he went some two or three dayes before my returne , so that I
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} send you any certaintie of his estate and
health , CHAMBER,I,373.025.991

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yt shold seeme he is on the mending hand CHAMBER,I,373.025.992

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or els he wold not have undertaken such a journy in these heates ,
which have ben and still continue very violent , with the greatest
drougth that hath ben knowne in the memorie of any man living .
CHAMBER,I,373.025.993

<P_I,374>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King is still in progresse . CHAMBER,I,374.025.994

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some speach there is <paren> but upon what ground I know not </paren>
that yt shold be abridged . CHAMBER,I,374.025.995

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince went after the King on Thursday last in post
CHAMBER,I,374.025.996

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they say overtooke him the next day . CHAMBER,I,374.025.997

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene sets foorth on Wensday toward Woodstocke thorough Buckingham
shire , CHAMBER,I,374.025.998

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and makes a long circuit by Sir Robert Dormers and Sir Richard Blunts .
CHAMBER,I,374.025.999

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Wotton came a fortnight since , CHAMBER,I,374.025.1000

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made after the King after some five or sixe dayes loytering here in
towne . CHAMBER,I,374.025.1001

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a commission till the end of this moneth to Sir Julius Caesar
, Sir Thomas Parry , Master Atturny , Sir Fra: Bacon , baron Sotherton
, Sir George Carie , Sir George Moore , Sir Walter Cope and one or two
more <paren> whom I have forgotten </paren> to devise and project the
best meanes for monie : CHAMBER,I,374.025.1002

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the world goes hard when such must be employed in that busines , the
greter part of whom have geven no goode proofe of well governing theyre
owne affaires : CHAMBER,I,374.025.1003

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but so they bring in no base course , yt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} the
more tolerable . CHAMBER,I,374.025.1004

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mary the common voyce runs that they harpe most upon debasing of monie
. CHAMBER,I,374.025.1005

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The widow countess of Rutland died lately CHAMBER,I,374.025.1006

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is privatly buried in Powles by her father Sir Phillip Sidney and
Secretarie Walsingham . CHAMBER,I,374.025.1007

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Walter Raleigh is slaundered to have geven her certain pilles that
dispatcht her . CHAMBER,I,374.025.1008

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Vicount Lile is gon for Flushing a thousand pound a yeare richer by
her death . CHAMBER,I,374.025.1009

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a fame that the Lady Sanquir is maried to one Sandes of
Buckingham shire , who hath or had a wife that was heyre to Chatterton
bishop of Lincoln and daughter to Sir Richard Brooke that maried Sir
Harry Neviles daughter , CHAMBER,I,374.025.1010

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but whether they be divorsed or how they be parted I know not .
CHAMBER,I,374.025.1011

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Nevile and his Lady tooke a journy this day sevenight toward
the yle of Wight , and so into Somerset shire , to see his daughters ,
making account to be almost a <P_I,375> moneth abrode .
CHAMBER,I,375.025.1012

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is a report of an affront shold be don to the Spanish ambassador
by a companion that riding neere his coach and saluting him , the
Spaniard putting of his hat in requitall , had yt snatcht from him and
so lost yt with a jewell and a rich band . CHAMBER,I,375.025.1013

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A messenger from the Palsgrave <paren> some say his steward </paren>
had the yll lucke in deliverie of his letters , to geve the Prince that
was directed to the Lady Elizabeth , and his to her :
CHAMBER,I,375.025.1014

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and withall was so long and often delayed in his accesse to the Quene
that he went away much discontented . CHAMBER,I,375.025.1015

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am going to morrow God willing toward Wareparke and to Sir Rowland
Lyttons in which places I thincke to remain this vacation
CHAMBER,I,375.025.1016

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I shall much long to heare of my Ladies goode recoverie , for which
will not cease to pray : CHAMBER,I,375.025.1017

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I commend you and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,375.025.1018

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this of August 1612 . CHAMBER,I,375.025.1019

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,375.025.1020

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_025:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable my very goode Lord Sir Rafe Winwod knight his
Majesties Ambassador to the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe
. CHAMBER,I,375.025.1021

<Q_CHM_A_1612_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_026> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,383>

{ED:151._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_November_3,_1612.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : Yf Deiston had not prevented his appointed time ,
and gon away before I was aware , he had not come to you empty handed .
CHAMBER,I,383.026.1022

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was not a litle glad to understand by Captain Blundell of my Ladies
happy deliverie , which came very fortunatly and opportune , which is
one goode argument of your childrens well dooing and future happines ,
so that you neede not much regard philosophers rules , which are dayly
contradicted by common experience : CHAMBER,I,383.026.1023

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that very night I receved your letter I chaunced to sup where there
was a gentlewoman niece to the Lady Fanshaw , that was a twinne in the
same manner , CHAMBER,I,383.026.1024

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and her brother Sir Thomas Butler of Bedford shire and her self are
both maried , CHAMBER,I,383.026.1025

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and both have children . CHAMBER,I,383.026.1026

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The captain was so desirous to discharge himself of your picture before
the Palsgraves arrivall , that yt was delivered before we could have a
sight or the least notice of yt , CHAMBER,I,383.026.1027

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but there $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} a time for yt hereafter when the
Prince is out of the way . CHAMBER,I,383.026.1028

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You have heard long since of the Count Palatines prosperous passage ,
and all the manner of his reception and intertainment :
CHAMBER,I,383.026.1029

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he is now lodged in the court in the late Lord Treasurers lodgings ,
CHAMBER,I,383.026.1030

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and doth carie himself so well and gracefully that he hath the love and
liking of all : saving some papists , or popishly affected , wherof
divers have ben called coram <P_I,384> for disgracefull speaches of him
, CHAMBER,I,384.026.1031

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and among the rest <paren> as I heare </paren> Sir Robert Drurie , who
<paren> because he was not intertained perhaps by him or his , as in
his vanitie he expected </paren> began to talke maliciously .
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1032

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the King is much pleased in him , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1033

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is all the court , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1034

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he doth so addresse himself and applie the Lady Elizabeth , that he
seemes to take delight in nothing but her companie and conversation ;
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1035

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yesternight her Grace invited him to a solemne supper and a play ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1036

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they meet often at meales without curiositie of bidding .
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1037

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Sonday was sevenight he dined with the King and Prince in the privie
chamber , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1038

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but sat bare all the while , whether by custome , or to beare the
Prince companie , who never came abrode since that day , beeing seased
by a feaver that came upon him at first with a loosenes , but hath
continued a quotidian ever since Wensday last , and with more violence
then {with}_P yt began , so that on Sonday he was let bloude , by
advise of most phisicians , though Butler of Cambridge was loth to
consent . CHAMBER,I,384.026.1039

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That afternoone he was very sicke , so that both King , Quene and the
Lady Elizabeth went severally to visit him , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1040

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and revelling and playes appointed for that night were put of ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1041

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the next morning he was somwhat amended , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1042

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so continues for ought I heare yet . CHAMBER,I,384.026.1043

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He and the Count Palatine were invited CHAMBER,I,384.026.1044

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had promised to the Lord Mayors feast on Thursday last ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1045

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and great preparation was made for them , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1046

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but by this accident he fayled . CHAMBER,I,384.026.1047

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mary the Count Palatine and his companie after they had seene the shew
in Cheapside <paren> which was somwhat extraordinarie with fowre or
five pageants and other devises </paren> went to Guild-hall ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1048

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and were there plentifully feasted and welcomed by Sir John Swinerton
the new Lord Mayor , and presented toward the end of dinner with a
fayre standing cup , a fayre bason and ewer , with two large liverie
potts , weighing altogether toward ounces to the value of almost $=li=
{TEXT:500=li=} in the name of the Citie ; CHAMBER,I,384.026.1049

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the marchant adventurers had sent him a present of wine the Saterday
before to the value of marks . CHAMBER,I,384.026.1050

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf the Princes sicknes do not hinder , the King meanes to go toward
Roiston on Friday , CHAMBER,I,384.026.1051

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is thought caries the young Count along with him .
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1052

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Touching new officers we have no more then when I wrote you last :
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1053

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
mary much expectation there hath ben from day to day ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1054

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but all the ressorts of those secret wheeles and windings are not yet
accorded . CHAMBER,I,384.026.1055

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare a goode frend of yours Sir H. N. takes great paines to
reconcile and set all in tune : and is in goode hope to effect yt .
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1056

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There hath ben meanes made to set up some indifferent subject ,
CHAMBER,I,384.026.1057

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and <P_I,385> goode wordes have ben geven of Sir Thomas Edmunds :
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1058

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Sir George Moore hath not wanted the voyce of a great prelat : who
hath many yrons in the fire at this time , and great differences
<paren> as they say </paren> with some of the greatest .
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1059

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir H. Wotton is thought to be downe the winde , CHAMBER,I,385.026.1060

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his busines begins to quaile . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1061

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King confronted him lately with a rayling booke of one Schoppius
<paren> as I take yt </paren> wherin he cites him as a dissembler
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1062

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent for the purpose for having at his comming out of Italie
written in a Germans booke or albo amicorum : H. W. Legatus , vir bonus
, missus ad mentiendum rei publicae causa : CHAMBER,I,385.026.1063

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though he wold have avoyded yt as a merriment , yet the King told
him yt was no jesting matter , and that he shold aunswer for himself ,
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1064

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he wold have yt cleered . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1065

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Judge Yelverton died on Friday last of very age , and Sir Edward Darcie
that was of the privie chamber to Quene Elizabeth :
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1066

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Lord Vaulx is pardoned his premunire , and delivered out of the
Kings Bench or Fleet to the custodie of the Deane of Westminster .
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1067

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare that Baldwin the Jesuite $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} delivered in
exchaunge for Mole the Lord Rosses tutor that hath ben so long in the
inquisition at Rome . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1068

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Walden that hath ben now a goode while wedded to the Lord of
Dunbars daughter , was not bedded with her till the last weeke ,
CHAMBER,I,385.026.1069

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that by speciall commaundment . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1070

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Casaubon had a sonne lately borne here , and christned by the King and
the Lord of Caunterburie , whose deputies for the purpose were the
bishops of Bath and Welles , and Rochester . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1071

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Godmother was Sir George Caries Lady . CHAMBER,I,385.026.1072

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have had yt here in full crie this fortnight and <P_I,386> more ,
that the first easterly wind wold bring you over ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1073

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt was generally thought you were to come with the Palsgrave , and
assuredly beleved that you were sent for , wherupon Master Gent thincks
yt best to remove in time , and begins to sgombrar , having taken a
lodging at Master Serles . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1074

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The common voyce runs currant and constant with no body but yourself ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1075

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and you know vox populi vox Dei . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1076

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Bodley doth rather empaire then amend , for all the help
that phisicke can affoord , so that I doubt he $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
last long : CHAMBER,I,386.026.1077

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I found him much cheered yesternight with a letter he had receved
from the Universitie of Oxford condoling his sicknes , and signifieng
how much they wished and prayed for his recoverie , wherby I perceve
how much fayre wordes worke as well upon wise men as others ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1078

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for indeed yt did affect him very much . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1079

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have once or twise moved speach about your sister Potman ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1080

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I see yt is a string must be touched tenderly ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1081

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt sounds not well in his eare , <paren> no more then somwhat els
that concerns him neerer </paren> CHAMBER,I,386.026.1082

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I did yt only by way of pitie of her estate ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1083

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I see he thincks to lay the burthen upon you ,
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1084

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told me that when you came to the place <paren> which you could not
misse </paren> yt were hard yf you could not in short time provide
somwhat for them that might be worth an hundred pound or two yearly .
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1085

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I understand from Sir Dudley Carleton that he meant to send his
secretarie Master Waake for England , and intended to send him by you ,
to confer about his busines and to take your directions .
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1086

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf this letter come before him , or find him there , I beseech you let
my recommendation stand him in some stead , CHAMBER,I,386.026.1087

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is a very proper and sufficient man , CHAMBER,I,386.026.1088

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and deserves your favor and thancks for his care and cost in going up
and downe to provide your glasses : which I wold be glad to heare that
you had receved , and that they were to my Ladies liking and yours .
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1089

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with my best wishes for both your healths , I commend you and all
yours to Gods holy protection . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1090

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 3=d= of November 1612 . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1091

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,386.026.1092

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:58
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_026:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwood knight his Majesties Ambassador
with the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,386.026.1093

<Q_CHM_A_1612_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_027> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,395>

{ED:156._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_December_17,_1612.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Since I wrote last I have receved two of yours
dated the 6=th= and the of November . CHAMBER,I,395.027.1094

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Touching the advertisement from the Haghe I know not what to aunswer .
CHAMBER,I,395.027.1095

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For mine owne part I <P_I,396> am sure I have geven no cause of venting
any peice of that desseign , CHAMBER,I,396.027.1096

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for the Agent yt never came within my conceit ,
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1097

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither can I ymagine whence yt shold proceed , unles yt were from some
great ones to whom perhaps yt might be imparted by way of assistance :
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1098

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or rather to tell you my opinion plainly , yt is most likely to be some
caquet des femmes , which be too busie and entermeddle too much on all
sides . CHAMBER,I,396.027.1099

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The next day after the terme Sir Richard Cockes and five others were
fined in the Starchamber some at marks , others at a and the least at ,
for reporting or hearing somwhat concerning the Lord Privie Seale , who
there made a long speach in his owne purgation : CHAMBER,I,396.027.1100

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but howsoever these fines be executed or no <paren> as most men beleve
they will not , but that only yt was don in terrorem </paren> yet the
precedent is thought straunge , CHAMBER,I,396.027.1101

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lord hath got no great advantage , but only this , that men
must learne not to speake of great ones ni en bien ni en mal .
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1102

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Baylie the princes chaplain that made the suspicious sermon at St.
Martins was injoyned by the counsaile to explane himself in the same
place , which he did the Sonday following CHAMBER,I,396.027.1103

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and that so soundly that in a very great audience he made the matter
much more plaine , relating the whole matter as yt passed at the
counsaile table , with justifieng and offering to make proofe or bring
his authors for what he had saide . CHAMBER,I,396.027.1104

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Divers other preachers have ben busie in the same kind ,
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1105

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and how yt comes to passe or upon what grounds I know not ,
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1106

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they take the alarme , CHAMBER,I,396.027.1107

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and begin to speake freely , or at least so feelingly that they make
themselves understoode though they kepe within compasse , so that I
perceve yt is not goode irritare crabrones , or to meddle with these
pulpit-hornets as our Doctor was wont to call them .
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1108

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The same day the princes funerall was kept here ,
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1109

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there was a solemne obsequie for him at Oxford with a sermon and a
funerall oration after yt at St. Maries and the like in the afternoone
at Christ Church , both which places were hangd and furnished with
blacks , CHAMBER,I,396.027.1110

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they have set out a booke of Latin elegies and funerall verses .
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1111

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our Cambrige men are nothing so forward nor officious
CHAMBER,I,396.027.1112

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only I heare of some verses are set <P_I,397> out or geven to some few
but not publikly sold : CHAMBER,I,397.027.1113

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they are now very busie in preparing exercises and playes against
the Palgraves comming who is expected there soone after Christmas .
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1114

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Lile hath lost his eldest sonne Sir William Sidney of the
small pockes , which were well come out CHAMBER,I,397.027.1115

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet he went away on the sodain ; CHAMBER,I,397.027.1116

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he hath now but one sonne left . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1117

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Old Sir Thomas Sherly , Will Stafford , and Sir John <paren> or Ajax
</paren> Harrington are dead of late . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1118

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Rossingham came some three weekes since out of Spaine , so
Spagnolised , that I scant knew him till he saluted me .
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1119

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare the cheife cause of his returne was the death of his wife .
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1120

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Trumball <paren> as I understand </paren> is to come over
shortly , CHAMBER,I,397.027.1121

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sworne clarke of the counsaile .
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1122

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King came from Roiston to Tiballs on Tewsday CHAMBER,I,397.027.1123

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is expected here about the end of this weeke or the beginning of
the next . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1124

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We looke now dayly for the naming of new officers ,
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1125

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir H. N. was never neerer the marke , which yf he hit not now I
will beleve no more secret assurances . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1126

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Savile comes to towne to morrow or next day to Sir Edward
Hobbies house in the Blacke Friers , CHAMBER,I,397.027.1127

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there to kepe Christmas and tarrie the most part of this winter ,
which hath ben hitherto so wet and warme as I never knew the like .
CHAMBER,I,397.027.1128

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Fraunces Bacon hath set out new essayes , where in a chapter of
deformitie the world takes notice that he paints out his late litle
cousin to the life . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1129

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Harry Wotton hath printed a sheet of paper for an apologie in the
matter objected to him by Schoppius , and dedicated yt to Velser of
Augusta . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1130

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have ben promised a sight of yt once or twise CHAMBER,I,397.027.1131

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet light upon yt . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1132

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was a priest one Latham or Mollineux hangd at Tiborne some ten
dayes since , who died very confidently or rather indeed desperatly in
such a cause . CHAMBER,I,397.027.1133

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The matter is not well handled in mine opinion , to suffer them
<P_I,398> to brave and talke so liberally at theyre execution .
CHAMBER,I,398.027.1134

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And this beeing all I can bethincke myself of , with all due
remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection of the Almighty
. CHAMBER,I,398.027.1135

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 17=th= of December 1612 . CHAMBER,I,398.027.1136

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,398.027.1137

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:58
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:39
LETTER:CHAMBER_027:E2:1612:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight his Majesties
Ambassador at Venice . CHAMBER,I,398.027.1138

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_028> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,402>

{ED:159._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_January_9,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : The holydayes are come and gon and nothing yet don
of that which was so duly expected , CHAMBER,I,402.028.1139

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I meane the translating and creating of new officers .
CHAMBER,I,402.028.1140

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King was moved by the counsaile in this <P_I,403> matter ,
specially for secretaries , for that the state of affaires required yt
, and suffred much for the want of a sufficient man that might ease and
help to disburthen his Majestie in the care and paines of that place ,
wherfore they besought him to provide and name whomsoever he pleassed :
CHAMBER,I,403.028.1141

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he tooke theyre advise in goode part CHAMBER,I,403.028.1142

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and promised to resolve in goode time , and further that when he did yt
he would perfect yt : which later clause I take for bonum omen , and
applie yt to the person I wish best to . CHAMBER,I,403.028.1143

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The world conceves the King hath no great inclination of himself to Sir
H. N. so that yf he prevaile yt must be as yt were invita Minerva , and
by the importunitie of his great patron : CHAMBER,I,403.028.1144

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then to counterpoise the balance and please the counterpart Sir
Tho: Lake may be admitted , or rather <paren> as the voyce goes now
</paren> Sir Thomas Edmunds , who besides his owne frends at home hath
the Duke of Buillon an earnest solicitor in his behalfe .
CHAMBER,I,403.028.1145

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At the solemnising of the fiancialles on St. Johns day Sir Tho Lakes
frends made account he had won ground , and outstept his competitors in
performing the part of a principall secretarie , when he did praeire
conceptis verbis , and repeat the wordes of the contract : which were
so badly translated and worse pronounced that yt moved an unseasonable
laughter as well in the contractors as the assistants , till the
archbishop of Caunterburie very gravely interposing himself used these
very wordes The God of Abraham , Isaake and Jacob blesse these
nuptialls , and make them prosperous to these kingdomes and to his
church . CHAMBER,I,403.028.1146

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You are excedingly beholden to that prelate for his goode word and
opinion , which he hath not spared to make knowne upon divers occasions
. CHAMBER,I,403.028.1147

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince Palatin <paren> for so he is now stiled and since this
contract is usually prayed for in the church among the Kinges children
</paren> was very royall in his presents this newyearstide , geving to
the Lord and Lady Harrington in golden and guilt plate to the value of
, to theyre servants , to all the women about the Lady Elizabeth a
peece , and a medaglia with his picture : to her waiters as much , and
to her cheife gentleman usher a chaine of , to Mistris Dudley a chaine
of perle and diamonds of , to the Prince a rapier and payre of spurres
set with diamonds , to the King a bottle of one entire agat containing
two quarts estemed a very rare and rich jewell , to the Quene a very
fayre cup of Agat and a jewell : and lastly to his mistris , a rich
chaine of diamonds , <P_I,404> a tire for her head all of diamonds ,
two very rich pendent diamonds for her eares , and above all two perles
, for bignes , fashion and bewtie estemed the rarest that are to be
found in Christendome : insomuch that the jewells bestowed only on her
are valued by men of skill above . CHAMBER,I,404.028.1148

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was purposed to shew the like bountie towards the King and Quenes
servants and officers , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1149

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the King directly forbad yt . CHAMBER,I,404.028.1150

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene is noted to have geven no great grace nor favor to this match
, CHAMBER,I,404.028.1151

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there is doubt will do lesse hereafter , for that upon these
frownes Schomberg <paren> that is cheife about him </paren> is saide to
have geven out that his master is a better man then the king of
Denmarke and that he is to take place of him in the empire , at
leastwise of a greater king then he the king of Boheme .
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1152

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The mariage is set downe for Shrovesonday , against which time yt is
saide the Lords and Ladies about the court have appointed a maske upon
theyre owne charge , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1153

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I heare there is order geven for to provide one upon the Kings cost
and for fireworkes . CHAMBER,I,404.028.1154

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The ynnes of court likewise are dealt with for two maskes against that
time , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1155

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and meane to furnish themselves for the service .
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1156

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince Palatin makes account to depart homeward some fifteen dayes
after his mariage , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1157

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Lady is to follow toward Whitsontide , conducted by fowre
earles , eight Barons and I know not how many knights .
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1158

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The old Lord Admirall meanes to make yt his last service to wafte her
over . CHAMBER,I,404.028.1159

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King removes this day toward Roiston , where the Lord of Rochester
shall have more leysure and commoditie to negotiat this busines that
intertaines every mans thoughts , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1160

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he pretends that the multiplicitie of other affaires hindred him
from moving yt whiles the King was here : CHAMBER,I,404.028.1161

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I will not forbeare to tell you that many are of opinion that he is
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} content to kepe yt in his owne hands .
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1162

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indeed he is very slowe of dispatch , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1163

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath at this time many yrons in the fire as well for himself as his
frends , CHAMBER,I,404.028.1164

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for besides the maine place he shoots at , he is now about the
reversion of the Lord Darcies lands , which for want of heyres males
are like to return to the crowne , according to the first graunt .
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1165

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A day or two before Christmas the King himself gave a hearing to a
controversie twixt the farmers of the customes and Sir John Swinerton
now Lord Mayor , who accused them of defrauding the King yearly of
CHAMBER,I,404.028.1166

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but when yt came to proofe yt could not be made goode , so that they
went away acquitted , <P_I,405> and he not much condemned for seeking
the Kings benefit . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1167

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have here dayly many banckrouts and as many protections which do
marvaylously hinder all manner of commerce . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1168

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The last weeke here came an ambassador from Lorrain to condole the
Princes death , and some say to propound I know not what match .
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1169

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was a very proper man , sonne <paren> as is saide </paren> to the
Cardinall of Guise that was strangled at Blois , and in great favor or
<paren> as they terme him </paren> the Lerma of the Duke of Lorrain .
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1170

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is likewise a gentleman from the Duke of Guise , and another from
the Prince Conti for the same effect . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1171

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The late princes houshold brake up the last of December ,
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1172

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his servants sent to seeke theyre fortune . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1173

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The inventarie of his moveables doth far exceed his debts ,
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1174

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the account of his yearly revenwes riseth to .
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1175

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Countesse of Oxford is dead of this new disease ,
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1176

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and left her sonne toward $=li= {TEXT:1500=li=} land , and all her
jewells and stuffe on condition he pay her legacies which rise to and
bestowe on a tombe for his father and her . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1177

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt may be you have heard that Sir George Farmor died above a moneth
since , as likewise Sir John Norris of Berkshire who left Sir Henry
Neville and Sir William Bowier his executors , CHAMBER,I,405.028.1178

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but his daughter the Lady Fenton hath put herself in possession and
meanes to carrie yt away by strong hand . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1179

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Webbe <paren> Sir Rowland Lyttons daughter </paren> a very
proper young gentlewoman died here in towne this Christmas of the small
pockes . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1180

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Evers is newly maried to the Lady Hunsdon Sir Richard Spensers
sister . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1181

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a quarrell fallen out twixt Edward Sackville sonne to the last
earle of Dorset , and the Lord Brus or Kinlos , which was to be
determined beyond sea . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1182

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sackvile got over , CHAMBER,I,405.028.1183

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Lord Brus was stayed at Dover ; where we heare these late winds
and tempests have don great harme , and in a manner ruined and defaced
the peere or haven . CHAMBER,I,405.028.1184

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I grow now doubtfull of Sir Thomas Bodleys recoverie ,
CHAMBER,I,405.028.1185

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though I have not much misliked him , and thought yt was but a
lingering indisposition that had many intervalla , <P_I,406> and shewes
of reviving , and beleve he hath had what help phisicke , goode order ,
attendance , and all a goode hart could affoord , and yet me thincks of
late he droupes and decayes visiblie , though he will not seeme to
yeeld to yt . CHAMBER,I,406.028.1186

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I meet your brother Potman there much , who hath so many goode wordes
and assured promises from him , that he is loth to have him moved ,
least he shold picke a quarrell and find fault that he is mistrusted .
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1187

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a plot to have had him urged to the point by Mathew Small ,
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1188

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but upon these and the like considerations , yt was let alone :
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1189

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my part I am not of opinion that he will do any great matter for
him , CHAMBER,I,406.028.1190

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but there is no meanes to mend yt , CHAMBER,I,406.028.1191

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is very wilfull , and growne exceding testie and waiward upon
every trifle and light occasion , so that <paren> as the case stands
</paren> a man may soone do hurt in seeking to do goode .
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1192

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1193

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 9=th= of January 1612 . CHAMBER,I,406.028.1194

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,406.028.1195

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_028:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie to the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,406.028.1196

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_029> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,411>

{ED:162._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_January_29,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : I am sory to understand by yours of the 29=th= of
December that there is such a slumber or slacknes growne upon them at
Venice that they forget theyre best frends , CHAMBER,I,411.029.1197

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I will not impute yt to yll manners , or any froward conceit
towards you , but only to a meere negligence . CHAMBER,I,411.029.1198

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have cause enough likewise to complaine of theyre neglect , and
specially for that those few letters I have thence are continually full
of excuses , wherby I perceve they see theyre owne fault but meane not
to mend yt , but still devise new phrases and tricks and excusandas
excusationes . CHAMBER,I,411.029.1199

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet still I kepe mine old course , CHAMBER,I,411.029.1200

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and send them those ordinarie occurrents that come in my way , which
though they be poore and sleight , yet are not unwelcome to them that
seldome are otherwise better provided . CHAMBER,I,411.029.1201

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We heare the King is still at Newmarket somwhat troubled with an humor
in his great toe which must not yet be christned or called the gowte .
CHAMBER,I,411.029.1202

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Presently upon his going the counsaile tooke theyre <P_I,412> severall
wayes , CHAMBER,I,412.029.1203

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave themselves some libertie of recreation for a whole weeke ,
CHAMBER,I,412.029.1204

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but are now as close at yt again as ever . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1205

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mary they still find defects for want of assistance in some busines :
CHAMBER,I,412.029.1206

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed complaine that matters find not that redy dispatch that were
to be wished , so that no doubt they will importune the King at his
return to resolve upon sombody . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1207

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The day of the Kings departure hence the Lord Archbishop feasted the
Palsgraves followers , which he tooke so kindly that when they were
redy to sit downe , himself came , though he were neither invited nor
expected : CHAMBER,I,412.029.1208

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the entertainment was very great , and such as became both the giver
and recever . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1209

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The earle of Arundell is returned out of Italie , so well satisfied
that they say he hath animum revertendi and will thether again : though
he had a very hard passage homeward , and was almost cast away twixt
Callis and Dover and escaped narrowly . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1210

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have had the straungest winter here that I thincke was ever seene ,
for warmth and wet : CHAMBER,I,412.029.1211

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to say the truth we have not had one cold day all this yeare .
CHAMBER,I,412.029.1212

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hope there is the more behind , CHAMBER,I,412.029.1213

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or els we are but in yll case for corne and fruit , which are so
forward that there is litle hope they shold come to goode , without
some nipping and keping backe . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1214

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have likewise had straunge windes , which have ben so violent and
continuall as I never knew the like , with great tempests of thunder
and lightning in divers places <paren> though not here at London
</paren> specially at a place in Kent called Chart , where in the
Christmas holy-dayes the people beeing at church , there were 35
blasted with lightning wherof the minister in the pulpit was one ,
though they be all since recovered , saving a miller that was stroke
dead in the place , and one more that died sixe or seven dayes after .
CHAMBER,I,412.029.1215

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Judge Williams died on Friday last , leaving a great estate behind him
both-1 in land and wealth : CHAMBER,I,412.029.1216

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
likewise Sir Antonie Senligier that was Master of the Rolles in Ireland
died here in towne the last weeke . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1217

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Robert Sherly with his Persian Lady are shipt away homeward in a
ship that goes for the East Indies , leaving theyre litle sonne behind
and bequeathing him to the care and favor of the Quene his God mother :
CHAMBER,I,412.029.1218

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he hath stayed here well by yt to litle purpose , having no great
reason to hast away , seeing he had allowance of fowre pound a day of
the King during his abode here . CHAMBER,I,412.029.1219

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Glover is come home from Constantinople , contrarie to
expectation , CHAMBER,I,412.029.1220

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for his comportement was geven out to be such there , that there was an
opinion he durst not have shewed his face , CHAMBER,I,412.029.1221

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he makes offer to justifie himself in <P_I,413> whatsoever can be
laide to his charge . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1222

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is a proclamation come foorth against pocket dagges :
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1223

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and order is gon into most shires to disarme the papists ;
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1224

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what secret cause there may be I know not CHAMBER,I,413.029.1225

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the world growes suspicious CHAMBER,I,413.029.1226

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and apprehends great daunger from them ; CHAMBER,I,413.029.1227

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and many rumors are raised as namely the last weeke that the earle of
Huntington was slaine by them in his owne house , wherupon at Coventrie
and Warwicke they shut theyre gates , and at Banburie and those parts
the people made all manner of provision , as yf they looked presently
to be assaulted . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1228

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady of Shrewsburie that hath ben long in the Towre , and had the
libertie of the place , and somtimes to attend her Lord in his sicknes
, is now of late restrained and kept more close , upon somwhat
discovered against her <paren> as they say </paren> by her niece the
Lady Arbella . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1229

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince Palatin goes to be installed at Windsor the seventh of the
next moneth , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1230

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and great preparations here are of braverie , maskes , and fire-workes
against the mariage : CHAMBER,I,413.029.1231

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the opinion is now that they shall go away both together before St.
Georges day . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1232

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Bodley is come to the last cast , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1233

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and surely I thincke he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} last many dayes ,
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1234

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet he bestirres himself in busines CHAMBER,I,413.029.1235

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bargaines as yf there were no such matter ; CHAMBER,I,413.029.1236

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and relies upon phisicke as much as when he first fell sicke , having
run over all the best phisicians of this towne , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1237

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is now fallen into Doctor Fosters hands : CHAMBER,I,413.029.1238

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet he is somwhat discouraged that he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} get
Butler of Cambrige to come at him , not so much as to speake with him ,
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1239

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he sayes wordes $can $not {TEXT:cannot} cure him ,
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1240

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he can do nothing els to him : CHAMBER,I,413.029.1241

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for upon sight of his water he sent him word what case he was in .
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1242

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath setled all things as he sayes , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1243

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold seeme resolute , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1244

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but God send him a goode resolution , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1245

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I doubt he is very neere his dissolution . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1246

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Having written thus far on Wensday morning by way of provision , and
seeing the wind so setled that there was no hope of sending away , I
forbare to seale yt up , in expectation what might fall out ,
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1247

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that afternoone Sir Thomas Bodley grew speachles and out of
knowlege , CHAMBER,I,413.029.1248

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so continued till yesterday between fowre and five in the
afternoone that he departed . CHAMBER,I,413.029.1249

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Presently Sir John Bennet and Master Hackwell his executors opened the
will , a copie wherof no doubt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sent you ,
CHAMBER,I,413.029.1250

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath nominated you and Sir Henry Savile overseers and the Lord
Archbishop , the Lord Chauncellor , and the Lord <P_I,414> Cooke
supravisors and for theyre paines bequeathed them cuppes of gold of the
value of a peece . CHAMBER,I,414.029.1251

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Gent came to me this morning as yt were to bemoan himself of the
litle regard hath ben had of him and others , CHAMBER,I,414.029.1252

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed for ought I heare there is scant any body pleased ,
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1253

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but for the rest yt were no great matter yf he had had more
consideration , or rather commiseration where there was most need :
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1254

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he was so caried away <paren> yf a man may say so </paren> with the
vanitie and vaine glorie of his librarie that he forgat all other
respects and duties <paren> almost </paren> of conscience , frendship
or goode nature , CHAMBER,I,414.029.1255

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all he had was too litle for that worke . CHAMBER,I,414.029.1256

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To say the truth I did never relie much upon his conscience ,
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1257

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I thought he had ben more reall and ingenuous :
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1258

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} learn that he hath geven any thing , no not a
goode word , nor so much as named any old frend he hath but Master Gent
and Tom Allen , who like a couple of almesmen must have his best and
second gowne , and his best and second cloke : CHAMBER,I,414.029.1259

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to cast a colour or shadow of somwhat upon Master Gent , he sayes
that he forgeves him all he ought him which Master Gent protests to be
never a pennie : CHAMBER,I,414.029.1260

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I must intreat you to pardon me yf I seeme somwhat impatient in his
behalf , who hath ben so servile to him , and indeed such a perpetuus
servus , that he deserved a better reward : CHAMBER,I,414.029.1261

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neither can I denie but I have a litle indignation for my self , that
having ben acquainted with him almost forty years , and observed and
respected him so much , I shold not be remembred with the value of a
spoone or a mourning garment , wheras yf I had gon before him <paren>
as poore a man as I am </paren> he shold not have found himself
forgotten : CHAMBER,I,414.029.1262

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but his thoughts descended not so low as to such mean frends ,
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1263

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but contrarie to the course of true naturall affection <paren> which
they say ever descends </paren> mounted altogether aloft to flatter and
currie favor with the higher powers now when he was to have no more use
of them . CHAMBER,I,414.029.1264

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Countesse of Salisburie was brought abed of a daughter on Wensday
night CHAMBER,I,414.029.1265

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had a very hard travayle . CHAMBER,I,414.029.1266

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a great breach fallen out twixt Vicount Fenton and Sir H.
Nevile about the executorship to Sir John Norris , which may chaunce
marre all , or at least hinder the fayre course he was in ,
CHAMBER,I,414.029.1267

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Lord is very violent , and gon with open mouth to complain to
the King , that he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} have his will against law
and equitie . CHAMBER,I,414.029.1268

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesternight the Prince Palatin feasted all the counsaile at Essex house
where in regard of the goode entertainment he found with <P_I,415>

th Lord Archbishop , he shewed more kindnes and caresses to him and his
followers then to all the rest put together : CHAMBER,I,415.029.1270

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,415.029.1271

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 29=th= of January 1612 . CHAMBER,I,415.029.1272

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_029:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,415.029.1273

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_030> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,415>

{ED:163._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_4,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton , Your sister Williams tells me she wrote so at large
to you the last weeke , that she hath left nothing for me , but to geve
you thancks for your letter of the of January which I receved upon
Sonday ; and to desire you to excuse me yf I do not fulfill your
commaundment in visiting your sister Underhill , unles yt were to more
purpose then to exchaunge a few fine words and phrases , which I was
never goode at , and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} now begin :
CHAMBER,I,415.030.1274

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I thincke you wold not have me expostulat her not writing to you ,
or begg a letter at her hands ; CHAMBER,I,415.030.1275

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I remember in one of your last lettres you gave me commission to
speake to Master Waake to go to her , who indeed is more fit as comming
lately from you , and beeing to go so shortly towards you .
CHAMBER,I,415.030.1276

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesterday there was a great meeting at Sir Henry Saviles about the
conclusion of a match for Mistris Elizabeth with the only sonne of Sir
W. Sidley of Kent that maried the Lady Abergeyney :
CHAMBER,I,415.030.1277

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Nevile was there and Sir John Lewson CHAMBER,I,415.030.1278

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what passed I have not yet heard . CHAMBER,I,415.030.1279

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Haddingdon was forward with child CHAMBER,I,415.030.1280

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and miscaried the last weeke . CHAMBER,I,415.030.1281

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
About this day sevenit the Countesse of Salisburie was brought abed of
a daughter , CHAMBER,I,415.030.1282

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lies in very richly , CHAMBER,I,415.030.1283

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the hanging of her chamber , <P_I,416> beeing white satin ,
embroidered with gold <paren> or silver </paren> and perle is valued at
fowreteen thousand pounds . CHAMBER,I,416.030.1284

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince Palatin feasted all the counsaile the last weeke ,
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1285

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and caried himself with great commendation , CHAMBER,I,416.030.1286

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but specially he respected the archbishop and his followers above all
the rest , as having receved only at his hands entertainment and kind
usage since his comming into England . CHAMBER,I,416.030.1287

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Sonday last and on Candlemas day he and his Lady were solemnly asked
openly in the chappell by the bishop of Bath and Wells ,
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1288

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the next Sonday is the last time of asking . CHAMBER,I,416.030.1289

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is extraordinarie preparation for fireworkes and fights upon the
water , with three castles built upon eight western barges , and one
great castle upon the land over against the court .
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1290

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One or two of the Kings pinnesses are come alredy from Rochester
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1291

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and divers other vessells to the number of sixe and thirty are provided
some like gallies , some galleasses , and some like carraques and other
ships of warre , and above five hundred watermen alredy pressed , and a
thousand musketters of the trained bands in the shires hereabout made
redy for this service , which in all computation $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} stand the King in so litle as five thousand pound .
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1292

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Tewsday I tooke occasion to go to court because I had never seen the
Palsgrave , nor the Lady Elizabeth <paren> neere hand </paren> of a
long time : CHAMBER,I,416.030.1293

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I had my full view of them both , CHAMBER,I,416.030.1294

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but will not tell you all I thincke , but only this , that he owes his
mistres nothing yf he were a Kings sonne as she is a Kings daughter .
CHAMBER,I,416.030.1295

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The worst is mee thincks he is much too young and small timbred to
undertake such a taske . CHAMBER,I,416.030.1296

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Count Maurice at the receving of the garter in the Lowe Countries
shewed himself very bountifull , CHAMBER,I,416.030.1297

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave great rewards to the king of Heraulds and his followers , as
perhaps your brother may understand from Sir Rafe Winwod , though yt
may be he will not certifie that himself had a cup of gold for a
present worth five hundred pound : CHAMBER,I,416.030.1298

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he hath ben very fortunat for such wind-falls though he hath no great
fortune from Sir Thomas Bodley , where there was more reason to expect
yt : CHAMBER,I,416.030.1299

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for dieng in his house <paren> which he bought of him above a yeare
since , </paren> he hath left him litle or nothing but his old armorie
that he could not tell well what els to do withall , and is in no way
worth twenty marke . CHAMBER,I,416.030.1300

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He died on Thursday last between fowre and five in the afternoone
having lien speachles and without knowing any body almost thirty howres
. CHAMBER,I,416.030.1301

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His executors are Sir John Bennet and Master Hackwell a younge lawier ,
Sir Rafe Winwod and Sir Henry Savile his overseers , and <P_I,417>
supravisors over them the archbishop of Caunterburie , the Lord
Chauncellor and the Lord Cooke , to each of these last bequeathing a
cup of gold of the value of fifty pound , wheras to his brothers he
hath left very litle , and to his brothers sonnes who are his heyres
and must hold up his house and name scant any thing .
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1302

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To Master Gent and Tom Allen like a couple of almesmen he hath left his
best and second gowne and his best and second cloke ,
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1303

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to cast a colour or shadow of somwhat upon Master Gent , he makes a
clause that he forgeves him all he ought him , which Master Gent
protests to be never a pennie , and hath much ado to withhold from
blasing how much and many wayes he was beholding to him in former times
, and indeed indebted : CHAMBER,I,417.030.1304

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but howsoever yt be , his beeing so obsequious and servile to him so
long a time deserved a better recompence and reward .
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1305

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But his servants murmure and grumble most , with whom he hath dealt
very mecanically : some of them having served him and her very
painfully above two and twenty yeare , others sixteen , others
fowreteen , and the best not reaping after so long expectation above
twenty pounds , the rest ten , and those not past two or three neither
. CHAMBER,I,417.030.1306

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He makes no mention of any frend he had , not so much as for a mourning
garment , CHAMBER,I,417.030.1307

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor will not allow yt his servants unles they go to his funerall at
Oxford to fetch yt , CHAMBER,I,417.030.1308

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but let goode nature go , yf he had had regard of conscience toward his
wifes children by whom he had all his wealth , CHAMBER,I,417.030.1309

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but in truth he hath dealt hardly with one of them who hath many
children and is in need and distresse , and by his meanes : the story
wherof is too long for a letter : CHAMBER,I,417.030.1310

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all this for a vainglory and shew of goode deeds ,
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1311

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath geven about seven thousand pound to his librarie at Oxford
, and two hundred pound to Merton Colledge , besides mourning to all
the students of that house from the highest to the lowest .
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1312

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This and such like makes me know and esteem the world as yt is ,
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1313

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nothing but vanitie CHAMBER,I,417.030.1314

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in that meditation I will leave and commit you to God .
CHAMBER,I,417.030.1315

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 4=th= of February 1612 . CHAMBER,I,417.030.1316

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,417.030.1317

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_030:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my assured goode frend Mistris Alice Carleton at the Lord
Ambassadors at Venice . CHAMBER,I,417.030.1318

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_031> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,418>

{ED:164._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_February_10,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : I am now in arrierages with you for both-1 your
letters of the 21=th= and 26=th= of the last moneth :
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1319

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yt is not altogether my fault , CHAMBER,I,418.031.1320

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yf I knew the times and dayes when to send I wold not be so farr
behind hand : CHAMBER,I,418.031.1321

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the best is you have here so diligent an observer of all occasions
, that nothing can scape unadvertised , so that were yt not more to
shew my goode will and serviceable affection , then for any matter of
worth , my double diligence might well enough be spared .
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1322

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King , Prince and Count Palatin came home yesterday from the
installation at Windsor , where the Count Lodovic of Nassau supplied
the place of Count Maurice putting in his caveat salvis
constitutionibus Foederatarum Provinciarum , as likewise the Prince
Palatin salvo jure Imperii . CHAMBER,I,418.031.1323

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare our Lords made some difficultie to yeeld that Count Maurice
shold skip over theyre heads and be placed next the Princes ,
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1324

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the case was overruled . CHAMBER,I,418.031.1325

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The mariage drawes neere CHAMBER,I,418.031.1326

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all things are redy . CHAMBER,I,418.031.1327

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Sonday was theyre last time of asking openly in the chappell .
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1328

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene growes every day more favorable , CHAMBER,I,418.031.1329

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there is hope she will grace yt with her presence .
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1330

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is a troupe of three or five hundred musketts made redy by the
citie to gard the court during these triumphes : CHAMBER,I,418.031.1331

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we have extraordinarie watches of substantiall housholders every
night , and an alderman in person to oversee them .
CHAMBER,I,418.031.1332

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The preparations for fire workes and fights upon the water are very
great CHAMBER,I,418.031.1333

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have alredy consumed which a man wold easilie beleve that sees the
provision of sixe and thirty sayle of pinnesses , gallies , galeasses ,
carraques and other vessells so trimmed , furnished and painted , that
I beleve there was never such a fleet seen above the bridge , besides
fowre floting castles with fire workes , and the representation of the
towne , fort and haven of Argier upon the land . CHAMBER,I,418.031.1334

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was expectation of some creation of noble-men at this solemnitie
, CHAMBER,I,418.031.1335

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we heare no more of yt , CHAMBER,I,418.031.1336

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only yt is thought we shall have a new frie of knights to the number of
forty at the least , CHAMBER,I,418.031.1337

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Lady Elizabeths followers have no other meanes to <P_I,419> put
themselves in equipage , but make port-sale and kepe as yt were open
market to all commers for a man . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1338

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} learne that she carries over any English man
of sort to continue about her but all Scottes , CHAMBER,I,419.031.1339

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I thincke the women are for most part English toward nineteen or
twenty . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1340

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The time of his and her departure hence is alredy prefixed to be about
Thursday in Easter weeke , that falles to be the 8=th= of Aprill .
CHAMBER,I,419.031.1341

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King at his beeing at Newmarket made seven or eight knights wherof
Sir Humfry May was the leader , Sir Robert Wingfeld <paren> that lately
maried a daughter of Sir Roger Ashtons </paren> , Sir Olave Lee , Sir
... Undrill late proctor of Oxford , Sir ... Clopton , Sir ... Wild and
I know not who els . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1342

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Haddington was forward with child CHAMBER,I,419.031.1343

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and miscaried the last weeke . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1344

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady of Bedford lies in weake case <paren> and they say </paren>
drawing on . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1345

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Countesse of Salisburies daughter is to be christned this day in
the Kings chappell the Quene and the Countesse of Suffolke her mother
beeing to be Godmothers . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1346

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here be many devises on foote to find monie CHAMBER,I,419.031.1347

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and among the rest they speake of a benevolence which is to be laide up
and called aes or rather aerarium sacrum , not to be touched but in
cases of extremitie , and in defence of the realme .
CHAMBER,I,419.031.1348

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The circuits are all altered and the Lord Cooke put to go Northampton ,
Lincoln and Lecestershire , CHAMBER,I,419.031.1349

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the King sayes he will make no more use of Non obstantes , that
Judges may ride and kepe assises in theyre owne country .
CHAMBER,I,419.031.1350

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir William St. John a sea-man , that was to be one of our cheif
commaunders in this freshwater fight , is committed to the Fleet for
replieng somwhat roundly to a lie <paren> as I heare </paren> geven him
at the counsaile table by the earle of Northampton .
CHAMBER,I,419.031.1351

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Wotton is busie in setting out the difference twixt the Pope
and the Venetians with all the circumstances that passed in the time of
the interdict CHAMBER,I,419.031.1352

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and withall meanes <paren> he sayes </paren> to make a character
<paren> as he calles yt </paren> of the earle of Essex his first master
, and of the Lord Treasurer his last patron . CHAMBER,I,419.031.1353

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but ere this time you have a copie of Sir Thomas Bodleys
will : whose funerall is to be performed at Oxford the 22=th= of March
, <P_I,420> and his body to be buried in Merton College .
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1354

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His executors do what they can to stop the clamors and complaints of
his people , and other speaches spred of him , and his hard dealing .
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1355

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One argument of his vanitie I will adventure to communicate unto you ,
though yt were in a manner committed to me sub sigillo confessionis ,
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1356

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I pray you let yt remain till you heare more .
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1357

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath written his owne life in seven sheetes of paper ,
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1358

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and not leaving out the least minutezze , or omitting nothing that
might tend to his owne glorie or commendation , he hath not so much as
made mention of his wife or that he was maried , wherby you may see
what a mind he caried , and what account he made of his best
benefactors : CHAMBER,I,420.031.1359

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this treatise is commended to the handes of the prime prelate , who I
feare will suppresse yt , CHAMBER,I,420.031.1360

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath too much judgement to let yt be published :
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1361

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as I was closing up this letter I receved yours of the 5=th= of this
present which doth so much double my debt , that I have no other way to
repay yt but with the offer of my true and faithfull service which is
as much at yours and your goode Ladies commaund as of any two living ,
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1362

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I commend you both and all yours to the protection of the
Almighty . CHAMBER,I,420.031.1363

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this of February 1612 . CHAMBER,I,420.031.1364

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,420.031.1365

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_031:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,420.031.1366

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_032> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,423>

{ED:166._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_18,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : Though Master Waake be now comming and lookes for
his dispatch within a day or two , who is able to make a large
discourse of all that passed at this wedding , yet because this is like
to arrive there before him , I will geve you a litle touch or taste of
that , wherof you may receve from him full and complete satisfaction .
CHAMBER,I,423.032.1367

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Thursday night the fireworks were reasonablie well performed all
save the last castle <paren> of five </paren> which bred most
expectation and had most devises , but when yt came to execution , had
worst successe . CHAMBER,I,423.032.1368

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Saterday likewise the fight upon the water came short of that shew
and bragges had ben made of yt , CHAMBER,I,423.032.1369

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they pretend the best to be behind and left for another day , which
was the winning of the castle on land : CHAMBER,I,423.032.1370

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the King and indeed all the companie tooke so litle delight to see
no other activitie but shooting and potting of gunnes that yt is quite
geven over and the navie unrigged and the castle pulled downe , the
rather for that there were divers hurt in the former fight , <paren> as
one lost both his eyes , another both his handes , another one hande ,
with divers others maymed and hurt </paren> so that to avoyde further
harme , yt was thought best to let yt alone , CHAMBER,I,423.032.1371

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this is the conclusion of all the preparation with so much expence
of powder and monie which amounted to no lesse then nine thousand pound
. CHAMBER,I,423.032.1372

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Sonday I was fetcht from Powles <paren> where I was set at the
sermon </paren> to see the bride go to church , CHAMBER,I,423.032.1373

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though yt were past ten a clocke before we came there yet we found
a whole window reserved in the jewell-house , which was over against
her comming downe a payre stayres out of the gallerie in the
preaching-place to a long stage or gallerie made along the court into
the hall ; so that we had as much view as a short passage could geve ,
CHAMBER,I,423.032.1374

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the excesse of braverie , and the continued succession of new
companie did so dasell me that I could not observe the tenth part of
that I wisht . CHAMBER,I,423.032.1375

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bridegrome and bride were both in a sute of cloth of silver richly
embrodered with silver , her traine caried up by thirteen younge Ladies
<paren> or Lords daughters at least </paren> besides five or sixe more
that could <P_I,424> not come neere yt : CHAMBER,I,424.032.1376

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
these were all in the same liverie with the bride , though not so rich
. CHAMBER,I,424.032.1377

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bride was maried in her haire that hung downe long , with an
exceding rich coronet on her head <paren> which the King valued the
next day at a million of crownes </paren> . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1378

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her two bridemen were the younge Prince and the earle of Northampton .
CHAMBER,I,424.032.1379

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King and Quene both followed , the Quene all in white but not very
rich saving in jewells : CHAMBER,I,424.032.1380

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the King me thought was somwhat straungely attired in a cap and a
feather , with a Spanish cape and a longe stocking .
CHAMBER,I,424.032.1381

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The chappell was very straightly kept none suffred to enter under the
degree of a baron , but the three Lords Cheife Justices :
CHAMBER,I,424.032.1382

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
in the midst there was a handsome stage or scaffold made , on the one
side wherof sat the Kinge , Prince , Count Palatin and Count Henry of
Nassau , on the other side the Quene with the bride and one or two more
. CHAMBER,I,424.032.1383

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon this stage they were maried by the archbishop of Caunterburie
assisted by the bishop of Bath and Wells <paren> who made the sermon
</paren> . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1384

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt was don all in English , CHAMBER,I,424.032.1385

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Prince Palatin had learned as much as concerned his part
reasonable perfectly . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1386

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French , Venetian and States ambassadors dined that day with the
bride . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1387

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Spanish ambassador was sicke CHAMBER,I,424.032.1388

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the archdukes was invited for the next day CHAMBER,I,424.032.1389

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but wold not come . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1390

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That night was the Lords maske wherof I heare no great commendation
save only for riches , theyre devises beeing long and tedious and more
like a play then a maske . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1391

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next morning the King went to visit these young turtles that were
coupled on St. Valentines day , CHAMBER,I,424.032.1392

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and did strictly examine him whether he were his true sonne in law ,
CHAMBER,I,424.032.1393

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was sufficiently assured . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1394

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That afternoone the King , Prince , Count Palatin with divers others
ran at the ring , CHAMBER,I,424.032.1395

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when that was ended , and the King and Prince gon , the Palsgrave
mounted upon a high bounding horse , which he managed so like a horsman
, that he was excedingly commended and had many showts and acclamations
of the beholders , CHAMBER,I,424.032.1396

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed I never saw any of his age come neere him in that exercise .
CHAMBER,I,424.032.1397

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt were long and tedious to tell you all the particularities of the
excessive braverie both-2 of men and women , CHAMBER,I,424.032.1398

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but you may conceve the rest by one or two . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1399

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Wotton had a gowne that cost fifty pound a yard the
embrodering . CHAMBER,I,424.032.1400

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare the earle <P_I,425> of Northumberlands daughter was very
gallant , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1401

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Lord Montague <paren> that hath paide reasonablie well for
recusancie </paren> bestowed fifteen hundred pound in apparell for his
two daughters . CHAMBER,I,425.032.1402

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Vicount Rochester , the Lord Hayes and the Lord Dingwell were
exceding rich and costly CHAMBER,I,425.032.1403

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but above all they speake of the erle of Dorset ,
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1404

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this extreem cost and riches makes us all poore .
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1405

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Monday night was the Middle Temple and Lincolns Ynne maske presented
in the hall at court , wheras the Lords was in the bancketting roome .
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1406

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt went from the Rolles all up Fleet-street and the Strand ,
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1407

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made such a gallant and glorious shew that yt is highly commended .
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1408

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They had forty gentlemen of best choise out of both houses rode before
them in theyre best array , upon the Kings horses :
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1409

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the twelve maskers with theyre torch-bearers and pages rode
likewise upon horse excedingly well trapped and furnished : besides a
dousen litle boyes , dresst like babones that served for an antimaske ,
<paren> and they say performed yt exceedingly well when they came to yt
</paren> , and three open chariots drawne with fowre horses a peece
that caried theyre musicians , and other personages that had parts to
speake : all which together with theyre trumpetters and other
attendants were so well set out , that yt is generally held for the
best shew that hath ben seen many a day . CHAMBER,I,425.032.1410

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinge stood in the gallerie to behold them CHAMBER,I,425.032.1411

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made them ride about the tilt-yard , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1412

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then were receved into St. James Parke CHAMBER,I,425.032.1413

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and went all along the galleries into the hall , where themselves and
their devises <paren> which they say were excellent </paren> made such
a glittering shew that the King and all the companie were excedingly
pleased , and specially with theyre dauncing , which was beyond all
that hath ben yet . CHAMBER,I,425.032.1414

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King made the maskers kisse his hand at parting ,
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1415

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave them many thanckes , sayeng he never saw so many proper men
together , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1416

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and himself accompanied them at the banket , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1417

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tooke care yt shold be well ordered , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1418

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and speakes much of them behind their backes , CHAMBER,I,425.032.1419

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and strokes the master of the rolles and Dick Martin who were the
cheife dooers and undertakers . CHAMBER,I,425.032.1420

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Tewsday yt came to Grayes Ynne and the Inner Temples turne to come
with theyre maske , wherof Sir Fra: Bacon was the cheife contriver ,
CHAMBER,I,425.032.1421

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and because the former came on horse backe , and open chariots ,
<P_I,426> they made choise to come by water from Winchester Place in
Southwarke : which suted well enough with theyre devise , which was the
mariage of the river of Thames to the Rhine : CHAMBER,I,426.032.1422

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and theyre shew by water was very gallant by reason of infinite store
of lights very curiously set and placed : and many boats and barges
with devises of light and lampes , with three peales of ordinance , one
at theyre taking water , another in the Temple garden , and the last at
their landing : which passage by water cost them better then three
hundred pound . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1423

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They were receved at the privie stayres : CHAMBER,I,426.032.1424

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and great expectation theyre was that they shold every way exceed
theyre competitors that went before them , both in devise , daintines ,
of apparell , and above all in dauncing <paren> wherin they are held
excellent </paren> and esteemed for the properer men :
CHAMBER,I,426.032.1425

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but by what yll planet yt fell out I know not , CHAMBER,I,426.032.1426

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they came home as they went without dooing any thing , the reason
wherof I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet learne thoroughly , but only that
the hall was so full that yt was not possible to avoyde yt or make
roome for them , CHAMBER,I,426.032.1427

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
besides that most of the Ladies were in the galleries to see them land
, CHAMBER,I,426.032.1428

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and could not get in : CHAMBER,I,426.032.1429

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the worst of all was that the King was so wearied and sleepie with
sitting up almost two whole nights before , that he had no edge to yt ,
wherupon Sir Fra Bacon adventured to intreat his Majestie , that by
this disgrace he wold not as yt were bury them quicke :
CHAMBER,I,426.032.1430

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I heare the King shold aunswer , that then they must burie him
quicke for he could last no longer , but withall gave them very goode
wordes and appointed them to come again on Saterday :
CHAMBER,I,426.032.1431

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the grace of theyre maske is quite gon when theyre apparell hath
ben alredy shewed and theyre devises vented so that how yt will fall
out God knowes , CHAMBER,I,426.032.1432

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they are much discouraged , and out of countenance ,
CHAMBER,I,426.032.1433

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the world sayes yt comes to passe after the old proverb
CHAMBER,I,426.032.1434

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the properer men the worse lucke . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1435

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One thing I had almost forgotten for hast that all this time there was
a course taken and so notified that no Lady or gentlewoman shold be
admitted to any of these sights with a verdingale , which was to gaine
the more roome , and I hope may serve to make them quite left of in
time . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1436

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet there were more scaffolds and more provision made for roome
then ever I saw both-4 in the hall and banketting roome , besides a new
roome built to dine , sup and daunce in . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1437

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus in great haste I commit you to God . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1438

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 18=th= of February 1612 . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1439

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_032:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,426.032.1440

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_033> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,427>

{ED:167._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_February_23,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : Since my last of the of this present here hath ben
litle to advertise , but the consummation of the Lady Elizabeths
mariage with the Count Palatin , together with the triumphes and shewes
both before and after . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1441

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I need not tell you how much this match is to the contentment of all
well affected people , and what joy they take in yt , as beeing a firme
foundation for the stablishing of religion , which <paren> upon what
conceit I know not </paren> was before suspected to be in bransle .
CHAMBER,I,427.033.1442

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the Roman Catholikes maligne yt as much , CHAMBER,I,427.033.1443

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and do what they can to disgrace yt as beeing the ruine of theyre hopes
. CHAMBER,I,427.033.1444

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene that seemed not to taste yt so well at first , is since so
come about that she doth all she can to grace yt , and takes speciall
comfort in him . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1445

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The solemnities were performed in the chappell , whether the bride was
conveyed on a scaffold or open gallerie all alonge the courtyard ,
arrayed in white , with her haire hanging downe long , and a rich
coronet on her heade , led by the younge Prince and the earle of
Northampton her bride-men : and her traine caried up by thirteen younge
Ladies <paren> or Lords daughters at least </paren> besides five or
sixe more that could not come neere yt , all suted in the same liverie
of white and embroiderie . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1446

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bishop of Bath and Wells preached , CHAMBER,I,427.033.1447

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the archbishop performed the other rites and ceremonies upon a
stage raised in the middes of the chappell , on the right side wherof
sat the King with the Prince , Palsgrave , and Count Henry , on the
other the Quene , with the bride , the Lady Harrington , and one or two
more . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1448

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The chappell was kept very straight , and none admitted under the
degree of a baron , saving the three Lords Cheife Justices :
CHAMBER,I,427.033.1449

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the contract and mariage was celebrated all in English ,
CHAMBER,I,427.033.1450

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Prince Palatin had learned as much as concerned his part
reasonable perfectly . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1451

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt were to no end to write of the curiositie and excesse of braverie
both-1 of men and women : CHAMBER,I,427.033.1452

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
with the extreme daubing on of cost and riches , only a touch shall
serve in a few for a pattern of the rest . CHAMBER,I,427.033.1453

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Wotton was saide to have a gowne that cost fifty pound a yeard
the embrodering : CHAMBER,I,427.033.1454

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Lord Montague <paren> that hath paide reasonable well for
recusancie </paren> bestowed in apparell upon his two daughters .
CHAMBER,I,427.033.1455

<P_I,428>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The bridegroome and bride with the Prince , French , Venetian , Count
Henry and States ambassadors dined in a roome built of purpose for this
mariage . CHAMBER,I,428.033.1456

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Spaniard was , or wold be sicke , CHAMBER,I,428.033.1457

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the archdukes ambassador beeing invited for the next day made his
excuse , CHAMBER,I,428.033.1458

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the ambassadors that were present , were not altogether pleased
<paren> as I heare </paren> CHAMBER,I,428.033.1459

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but every one found some puntillo of disgust . CHAMBER,I,428.033.1460

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a matter happened the same day , which though yt were not
then so much noted , hath since bred much speach :
CHAMBER,I,428.033.1461

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lion the Scottish king of Heralds beeing expresly sent for , ware a
rich coate of armes <paren> provided here </paren> with the armes of
Scotland before England ; which is thought to be a great affront
offered at such a time , in such a place , to such a people .
CHAMBER,I,428.033.1462

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now for the fire works and fight upon the water , <paren> the one
performed the Thursday night , the other on Saterday in the afternoone
before the mariage </paren> there was nothing in either aunswerable to
the great expectation conceved , or the cost bestowed , which amounted
to more than $=li= {TEXT:9000=li=} so that according to the proverb
Parturiunt montes et ct . CHAMBER,I,428.033.1463

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Marry they pretend the best was kept backe for another day ,
CHAMBER,I,428.033.1464

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the King and indeed all the companie were so sufficiently
unsatisfied with this , that they cared not nor desired to see any more
, the rather for that there was much hurt don , and divers maymed .
CHAMBER,I,428.033.1465

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lords maske likewise on the mariage night , though yt were very
rich and sumptuous , yet yt was very long and tedious , and with many
devises more like a play then a maske , CHAMBER,I,428.033.1466

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Middle Templers and Lincolns Ynne gave great contentment on
Monday night , as well with theyre gracefull comming on horsebacke , as
in all the rest of theyre apt invention , apparell , fashion , and
specially theyre excellent dauncing , wherewith the King was so much
delighted that he gave them many thancks , and much commendation as
well to theyre faces as behind theyre backs . CHAMBER,I,428.033.1467

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the next day our Grayes Ynne men and the Inner Temple had not the
same fortune , though they deserved no lesse : CHAMBER,I,428.033.1468

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for striving to varie from theyre competitors , <paren> and theyre
devise beeing the marieng of the Thames to the Rhine , </paren> they
made choise to go by water from Winchester-house in Southwarke , with
theyre boats and barges excedingly trimmed , and furnished with store
of lights that made a glorious shew , and three peale of ordinance
<paren> at theyre taking water , at theyre passing by the Temple , and
at theyre landing , </paren> which passage by water cost them better
then $=li= {TEXT:300=li=} . CHAMBER,I,428.033.1469

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But when they were landed at the court , <paren> by what mischaunce I
know not </paren> they were faine to return as they went without dooing
any thing , the reason wherof <P_I,429> some say was because the hall
was so full that yt could not be avoyded nor roome made for them , and
most of the principall Ladies <paren> that were in the galleries to see
theyre landing </paren> excluded : CHAMBER,I,429.033.1470

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the most probable is that the King was so satiated , and
overwearied with watching the two nights before , that he could hold
out no longer and so was driven to put yt of till Saterday , when yt
was very well performed in the new banketing house , which for a kind
of amends was graunted to them though with much repining and
contradiction of theyre emulators . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1471

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next day the King made them all a solemne supper in the new mariage
roome , CHAMBER,I,429.033.1472

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and used them so well and graciously that he sent both parties away
well pleased . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1473

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At this great solemnitie there was no creation of noblemen , nor making
of knights as was most assuredly expected , the reason wherof is
diversly interpreted . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1474

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The speach is now who $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} commissioners to conduct
the Lady Elizabeth home , and to see her and her joynter well setled :
CHAMBER,I,429.033.1475

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Duke of Lennox , the earle of Arundell , the vicount Lile , the
Lord Zouch and the Lord Harrington are named , and Levinus for
secretarie in that service . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1476

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but you have heard of the death of the Lady Conway , and
the Lady Mary Nevill <paren> the Lord Treasurer Dorsets daughter
</paren> : CHAMBER,I,429.033.1477

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yesterday there was a sodain bruit that the Lord Zouch was dead or in
great daunger . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1478

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King went yesterday to Tiballs and so toward Roiston and Newmarket
to enjoy this fayre weather , CHAMBER,I,429.033.1479

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Count Palatin is to follow that way , and so to Cambrige very
shortly . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1480

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene removes this weeke to Greenwich : CHAMBER,I,429.033.1481

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this beeing all I have for the present I will commend your goode
Lady and all yours to Gods holy protection . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1482

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 23=th= of February 1612 . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1483

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,429.033.1484

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_033:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,429.033.1485

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_034> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,433>

{ED:169._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_March_10,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : Since my last of the 23=th= of Februarie I receved
yours of the CHAMBER,I,433.034.1486

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wish you many such windfalls as yt mentions from Count Maurice ;
CHAMBER,I,433.034.1487

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all litle enough considering the charge is now comming toward you
by the Lady Elizabeths passage , though I am of opinion that her traine
will not be so great by many degrees as was expected ,
CHAMBER,I,433.034.1488

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we devise all the meanes we can to cut of expence , and not without
cause , beeing come ad fundum , and to the very lees of our best liquor
, CHAMBER,I,433.034.1489

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
els shold not the Palsgraves house have ben so abruptly broken up , and
the most part of his companie dissolved and sent away so sodainly ,
presently after the Kings going to Newmarket , which the Lady
Elizabeths highnes tooke very grevously and not without cause , but
that necessitie hath no law . CHAMBER,I,433.034.1490

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The number and qualitie of her attendants varies every day .
CHAMBER,I,433.034.1491

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some say the Lords go no further then Bachrach , and that Doctor Martin
<paren> the Kings advocat </paren> , and Master Levinus are the sole
commissioners for setling and looking to the joynter .
CHAMBER,I,433.034.1492

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The time of her departure varies likewise in common report , beeing
<paren> they say </paren> put of from the 8=th= of Aprill till after
St. Georges day that they may have fayre moone-light nights at sea .
CHAMBER,I,433.034.1493

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Palsgrave hath presented the Quene with an exceding fayre carosse
made <P_I,434> in Fraunce of pall coloured velvet richly embroidered
with gold and silver both within and without , with sixe horses and two
coachmen all in the same liverie , and the wheeles with all the yron
worke richly gilded and curiously wrought valued at eight or nine
thousand pound at least . CHAMBER,I,434.034.1494

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath dealt bountifully likewise with Sir Harry Savile and sent him
two fine standing cupps with a bason and ewre all gilt to the value of
better then $=li= {TEXT:50=li=} in requitall of his Chrisostome he
presented him withall , besides five pound to his man that brought yt .
CHAMBER,I,434.034.1495

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was looked for here last night CHAMBER,I,434.034.1496

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but whether he came or no I know not ; CHAMBER,I,434.034.1497

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on Tewsday was sevenight the Prince and he went from Newmarket to
Cambrige , where I heare they found great entertainment , and had two
very commendable acts in Divinitie and philosophie , besides two
excellent comedies but that they marred them with length and made them
grow tedious , the one of them lasting between seven and eight howres .
CHAMBER,I,434.034.1498

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
During theyre beeing at Cambrige the King escaped a great daunger at
Newmarket , by reason the foundation of the house where he lay began to
sincke on the one side , with great cracks , so that the doores and
windowes flew open and they were faine to fetch him out of his bed with
all possible expedition . CHAMBER,I,434.034.1499

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
About the same time the Lord of Rochesters chamber at White-hall was
robbed , CHAMBER,I,434.034.1500

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what he lost is not knowne , CHAMBER,I,434.034.1501

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they left his gay clothes , and whole peeces of cloth of gold and
rich stuffes . CHAMBER,I,434.034.1502

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here be great store of coyners apprehended in divers parts , which no
doubt will multiplie daylie , now that the Lord Harrington in
recompence of <paren> he sayth </paren> he hath spent in attending the
Lady Elizabeth hath his sute graunted of coyning brasse farthings :
which is doubted to be but a shooing-horne to draw on more of that
mettell to our mint , CHAMBER,I,434.034.1503

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and you must thincke we are brought to a lowe ebbe when the last weeke
the archdukes ambassador was caried to see the auncient goodly plate of
the house of Burgundie , <paren> pawned to Quene Elizabeth by the
Generall States in anno 78 as I remember </paren> and to know whether
his princes wold redeeme yt , CHAMBER,I,434.034.1504

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for otherwise yt was to be melted . CHAMBER,I,434.034.1505

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Arbella is saide to be distracted , which <paren> yf yt be so
</paren> comes well to passe for sombody whom they say she hath neerly
touched . CHAMBER,I,434.034.1506

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a parlement summoned in Ireland to be held in May <P_I,435>
next , CHAMBER,I,435.034.1507

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Deputie there is created baron Chichester of Belfast .
CHAMBER,I,435.034.1508

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not whether I wrote you in my former of an odde fray that
happened much about that time neere the Temple twixt one Huchinson of
Grayes Ynne and Sir German Poole , who assaulting the other upon
advantage , and cutting of two of his fingers , besides a wound or two
more before he could draw , the gentleman finding himself disabled to
revenge him self by the sword , flew in upon him and getting him downe
tore away all his eye-brow with his teeth , and then seasing on his
nose bit of a goode part of yt , and caried yt away in his pocket .
CHAMBER,I,435.034.1509

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sent your commendations to Master Gent and as much more of your last
letter as concerned him : whose aunswer I thought best to return under
his owne hand . CHAMBER,I,435.034.1510

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare your Lady sent to the executors to have certain stuffe reserved
for her , which though yt were but an easie request , yet I doubt will
hardly be graunted , CHAMBER,I,435.034.1511

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Lady Bennet hath forestalled all the market , at which the Lady
Savile stormes and complaines out of measure that she $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} have the preferment of the best linnen .
CHAMBER,I,435.034.1512

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I must intreat you to excuse this scribling , CHAMBER,I,435.034.1513

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I am not very current , CHAMBER,I,435.034.1514

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but have drouped these seven or eight dayes CHAMBER,I,435.034.1515

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am now driven to kepe my chamber . CHAMBER,I,435.034.1516

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady , and
wishing all health to you and yours I commend you to the protection of
the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,435.034.1517

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this of March 1612 . CHAMBER,I,435.034.1518

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,435.034.1519

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_034:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces : at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,435.034.1520

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_035> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,446>

{ED:173._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_May_6,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : Yt hath pleased God to restore me from the
greatest weakenes that ever I was in to my remembrance :
CHAMBER,I,446.035.1521

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though I <P_I,447> $can $not {TEXT:cannot} say that I am fully
recovered , yet I find that I begin to gather hart and strength ,
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1522

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my stomacke <paren> or appetite at least </paren> growes faster
upon me then I wold have yt , with certain longings after meates that
are not for me yet to venter upon . CHAMBER,I,447.035.1523

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In truth I was brought very lowe so far foorth that generally they
despaired of me : CHAMBER,I,447.035.1524

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for mine owne part I speake yt unfainedly <paren> yf yt had so
pleased God </paren> I was even as redy and willing to go as to tarrie
, which I take as an earnest of his grace and favor ,
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1525

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and beseech him that when my appointed comes I may be no worse minded .
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1526

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I must pray your Lordship to excuse me that I have ben silent so long ,
having receved so many kind letters from you , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1527

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but indeed I have not , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1528

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor was not able to set pen to paper many a day , but only about a
fortnight since for a farewell to Master Gent , who goode man is gon to
God I hope . CHAMBER,I,447.035.1529

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He died on Friday the last of Aprill at Oxford , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1530

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was buried the next day very privatly and without noise not so much
as the ringing of a bell : CHAMBER,I,447.035.1531

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet learne that he hath made any will , which
makes me suspect <paren> as I have don long </paren> that he died in
debt . CHAMBER,I,447.035.1532

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Vice-chauncellor to shew double diligence presently sealed up his
chamber and his studie , where when they come to visit and search I
thincke they shall find nothing but dust and cobwebs .
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1533

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His disease was first a cold , which grew so vehemently upon him that
yt perisht his lunges , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1534

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
then came a fever , for the which <paren> though he were threescore and
eleven yeares old , </paren> Dr. Ashworth adventured to let him bloud
with his owne hande , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1535

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so eased him of his fever , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1536

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the consumption of his lunges was past cure .
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1537

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have lost a very kind frend of him , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1538

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he continued till the last gaspe CHAMBER,I,447.035.1539

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for weekly I had letters from him as long as he could write and
afterwards from others by his direction , with some medecin , or other
advise proper for my disease , which was a loosenes after phisicke ,
that continued with me night and day for seven weekes together , and
wold not be stayed by any outward nor inward medicines , but rebelled
against all forcing , and rather grew to more violence so that I
resolved to leave all , and commit my self only to God and goode
government . CHAMBER,I,447.035.1540

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I have indured a longe penaunce and kept my chamber now these nine
weekes , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1541

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and how much longer I shall God knowes , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1542

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I amend but very slowly . CHAMBER,I,447.035.1543

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt I have dwelt too long upon this argument ,
CHAMBER,I,447.035.1544

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I hope you will excuse me , CHAMBER,I,447.035.1545

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for sicke men are privileged to tell all theyre stories and greevances
. CHAMBER,I,447.035.1546

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not what I can write you for newes from hence , seeing you have
<P_I,448> the market come home thether to you . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1547

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but you have heard what a noble part and example my Lord of
Rochester shewed here of late , CHAMBER,I,448.035.1548

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we beeing at a dead lift , and at our witts end for want of monie
he sent for some officers of the receit CHAMBER,I,448.035.1549

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and delivering them the key of a chest , bid them take what they found
there for the Kings use which they say was fowre or five and twenty
thousand pound in gold . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1550

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neither can you choose but be perfect in the true cause of Sir Thomas
Overberies committing to the Towre , which was a contemptuous aunswer
and refusing of forrain employments offered him in the Kings name , and
specially that he insisted that the King could not in law nor justice
force him to forsake his countrie . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1551

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But some say he was most urged to that of Moscovie , which drave him to
that peremptorie and unmannerly aunswer . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1552

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indeed we have great dooings in hand and strange projects for that
place , which I doubt will all prove discourses in the ayre :
CHAMBER,I,448.035.1553

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they be grounded upon certain speaches of some of the nobilitie to
an English marchant about two yeares since , CHAMBER,I,448.035.1554

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but tempora mutantur , CHAMBER,I,448.035.1555

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the case is much altered there since that time ,
CHAMBER,I,448.035.1556

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet the King apprehends the busines very earnestly ,
CHAMBER,I,448.035.1557

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath caused Sir Henry Nevill to confer with some of the counsaile
about yt divers times , wherin they say he hath shewed great
sufficiencie and discoursed at large what commoditie might arise , by
bringing the whole trade of Persia and the inland parts of the East
Indies , up the river Hidaspes , and so with a short cut downe the
river Oxus into the Caspian sea , and then up the river Volga , to a
straight of land that will carie all into the river Dwina that runs
downe to St. Nicolas and the towne of the Archangell , the ordinarie
port and station of our shipping in those parts :
CHAMBER,I,448.035.1558

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
these be goodly specious discourses of things not so easilie don as
spoken . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1559

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For my part I can never beleve that that people will put themselves so
under the Kings protection as to be governed by a deputie
CHAMBER,I,448.035.1560

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we can affoord them no other ; CHAMBER,I,448.035.1561

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf the matter shold come to any passe , what a busines and charge
yt wold be to transport thether 12 or men , <paren> which are the
numbers spoken of </paren> you may judge . CHAMBER,I,448.035.1562

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some say my Lord of Rochester tooke Sir Thomas Overberies committing to
hart , CHAMBER,I,448.035.1563

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
others talke as though yt were a great diminution of his favor and
credit , which the King doubting wold not have yt so construed , but
the next day told the counsaile , that he meant him dayly more grace
and favor as shold be seen in short time , and that he tooke more
delight and contentment in his companie and conversation <P_I,449> then
in any man living . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1564

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Lennox had a pretence to be made duke or erle of Richmond
and so by consequence an English peere of parlement ,
CHAMBER,I,449.035.1565

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to that purpose had procured divers noble mens hands to present to
the King in his behalfe , CHAMBER,I,449.035.1566

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but finding more difficultie in the prosecution of yt then he expected
hath geven yt over for the time . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1567

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was speach of a divorce to be prosecuted this terme twixt the
earle of Essex and his Lady , CHAMBER,I,449.035.1568

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to that end he was content to confesse <paren> whether true or
fained </paren> insufficiencie in himself ; CHAMBER,I,449.035.1569

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but there happened an accident that hath altered the case ,
CHAMBER,I,449.035.1570

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she having sought out a certain wise woman had much conference with
her , CHAMBER,I,449.035.1571

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and she after the nature of such creatures drawing much monie from her
, at last cousened her of a jewell of great value , for the which
beeing apprehended and clapt up , she accuses the Lady of divers
straunge questions and projects , and in conclusion that she dealt with
her for the making away of her Lord <paren> as ayming at another marke
</paren> upon which scandall and slaunder the Lord Chamberlain and his
frends thincke yt not fit to proceed with the divorce .
CHAMBER,I,449.035.1572

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince Palatin before his going made a suit to the King for the
inlargement of the Lord Gray . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1573

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King told him he marvayled how he shold become suitor for a man
whom he neither knew nor ever saw . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1574

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He aunswered that he was recommended to him by his uncles the Duke of
Buillon , the Prince Maurice , and the Count Henry who had better
knowlege of him . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1575

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then the King saide sonne when I come into Germanie I will promise you
not to importune you for any of your prisoners . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1576

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Since that time the Lord Gray hath ben restrained and kept more
straight for having had conference with one of the Lady Arbellas women
, who beeing strictly examined was faine to confesse that yt was only
matter of love and daliance . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1577

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Arbella is likewise restrained of late though they say her
braine continue still crackt , and the Countesse of Shrewsburie more
close then at any time before , and not without cause as the voyce goes
. CHAMBER,I,449.035.1578

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is thought the Prince Palatin went not away so well satisfied beeing
refused in divers suits and requests CHAMBER,I,449.035.1579

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I heare that from Caunterburie he wrote to the archbishop
complaining that the King did not use him like a sonne , but rather
like a youngling or childish youth not to be regarded .
CHAMBER,I,449.035.1580

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is saide he presented the archbishop before his going with plate to
the value of and the Lord Chauncellor with somwhat lesse value , but
gave nothing els to any of the counsaile . CHAMBER,I,449.035.1581

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I mervayle the Lady <P_I,450> Elizabeth went away so meanly attended by
Ladies , CHAMBER,I,450.035.1582

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I heare not of any but the Lady of Arundell , <paren> who hath an
errand of her owne into Italie , </paren> and the Lady Harrington ,
besides her owne attendants . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1583

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene is gon to the Bath in great state , CHAMBER,I,450.035.1584

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for besides the Lord Chauncellors Countesse of Darbie and the Countesse
of Dorset she hath divers other Ladies that follow her , as also the
earle of Worcester , the Lord Davers with other noble-men .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1585

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King brought her on her way to Hampton Court .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1586

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her next remove was to Windsor then to Causham a house of the Lord
Knolles not far from Reding , where she was entertained with revells
and a gallant maske performed by the Lord Chamberlains fowre sonnes ,
the earle of Dorset , the Lord North , Sir Harry Rich , and Sir Henry
Carie , and at her parting presented with a daintie coverlet or quilt ,
a rich carquenet , and a curious cabinet to the value in all of .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1587

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Though she make account to stay at the Bath but ten dayes yet yt is
saide this journy will stand the King or her in .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1588

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is the Marques de Villa come ambassador from the Duke of Savoy .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1589

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is a principall person CHAMBER,I,450.035.1590

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and caries a great state , CHAMBER,I,450.035.1591

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is accounted otherwise a very gallant gentleman and of great
sufficiencie . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1592

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He had audience on Tewsday and yesterday , CHAMBER,I,450.035.1593

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they say will tarrie the Quenes returne having presents for her of
great value . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1594

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He leaves a resident or lidger behind him one Gaballione a banquier of
great dexteritie . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1595

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The old quarrell was renewed at Caunterburie by the Lord Brus or Kinlos
upon Edward Sackvile , at the Princesse beeing there .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1596

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord bare away two or three goode buffets on the face
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1597

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Sackvile had no weapon <paren> having geven his rapier instantly
before to the Palsgrave </paren> CHAMBER,I,450.035.1598

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so they were parted , and made frends by the noble-men that were
present . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1599

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Brus is since gon into Fraunce I thincke to learne fence .
CHAMBER,I,450.035.1600

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have a speach of a new call of sergeants which I make no doubt but
$will $be {TEXT:wilbe} don a l'encan . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1601

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Old Sheldon of Beely is lately dead CHAMBER,I,450.035.1602

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is Dr. Chennill of Oxford , and Stevens a lawier that was the
late Princes atturny : and Paddon an auditor . CHAMBER,I,450.035.1603

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Allen hath had a hard yeare of this to leese three so goode and
substantiall frends for his turne as Sir Thomas Bodley , Master Sheldon
<P_I,451> and Master Gent . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1604

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Nevill is in a fayre way CHAMBER,I,451.035.1605

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his frends looke dayly when he $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sworne
Secretarie CHAMBER,I,451.035.1606

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I hope he shall tarrie till a collegue and partner come to help to
beare the burthen , CHAMBER,I,451.035.1607

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I will not beleve otherwise but that we shall see you here shortly
and my goode Lady wherof no man living $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} more
glad then myself . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1608

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseech you Sir to present my best service and thanckfull acceptance
of her daintie present , which was once going for a legacie ,
CHAMBER,I,451.035.1609

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but now I hope I shall bequeath yt to myself . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1610

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sory I have wearied you and myself so long with matters that $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} choose but be knowne to you from many better and
spedier advertisers , CHAMBER,I,451.035.1611

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I have no other way to shew my goode will and dutifull affection ,
CHAMBER,I,451.035.1612

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so wishing all health to you and yours I commend you to the
protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1613

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 6=th= of May 1613 . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1614

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,451.035.1615

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_035:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As I was now closing this letter I understand that Sir Robert Killegrew
was yesterday committed to the Fleet from the counsaile table , for
having some litle speach with Sir Thomas Overberie who called to him as
he passed by his window , as he came from visiting Sir Walter Raleigh .
CHAMBER,I,451.035.1616

<Q_CHM_A_1613_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_036> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,455>

{ED:175._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_June_10,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : At my comming to towne the last weeke I met with
your letter of the 14=th= of May , my last unto you beeing the 13 of
the same , since which time here hath not ben much alteration I meane
in matter of placing or displacing of officers : CHAMBER,I,455.036.1617

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sure I begin now to be of opinion that our hopes go rather backward
then forward , one reason wherof <paren> among many others </paren> is
that these businesses are now parted among divers that were wont wholly
to relie upon one , CHAMBER,I,455.036.1618

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they are loth to loose that hold of valuinge themselves in the
Kings favor and having accesse to his eare . CHAMBER,I,455.036.1619

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I could wish our frend in the Lowe Countries had never ben spoken of ,
CHAMBER,I,455.036.1620

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yf he do misse , yt will make him geve over the world , and leave
those courses that might easily have brought him both profit and
advancement . CHAMBER,I,455.036.1621

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Mansfeld hath ben this fortnight in the Marshalsee for
animating the Lord Admirall to stand against a commission graunted to
review and reforme the abuses committed by the officers of the navie ,
CHAMBER,I,455.036.1622

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Whitlocke the lawier is in the Fleet for speaking too boldly
against the authoritie of the Marshall-Court : CHAMBER,I,455.036.1623

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and beeing upon his release is remitted thether again , for geving his
opinion <paren> though not under his hand </paren> to Sir Robert
Mansfelt that this <P_I,456> commission was not according to law .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1624

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last moneth the parlement assembled in Ireland ,
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1625

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but at the first meeting the popish faction excepted against certain
new boroughs and burgesses lately erected by the King , alleging they
ought not to be admitted till they were allowed by parlement :
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1626

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
then was there another difference about choosing theyre speaker , the
one side making choise of Sir John Davis , the other of one Sir ...
Everard a very sufficient and grave man as is geven out ;
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1627

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they got both into the chayre CHAMBER,I,456.036.1628

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there bustled awhile till Sir Richard Wingfeld Marshall of Ireland
puld downe the Irishman CHAMBER,I,456.036.1629

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so they dissolved , CHAMBER,I,456.036.1630

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sent a petition to the King . CHAMBER,I,456.036.1631

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time the parlement is adjourned to a further day ,
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1632

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the earle of Tomond is newly arrived from thence .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1633

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The cause of Suttons hospitall after much arguing and debating pro et
contra , is come almost to the upshot beeing brought into the Chequer
Chamber where all the judges must argue and geve theyre opinion :
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1634

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the atturney generall hath spoken excellently for yt , and Master
Sollicitor as wittilie and ingeniously against yt .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1635

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In conclusion on Satterday last the fowre puisne judges began ,
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1636

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and went all cleerly for yt , which I assure you hath much revived the
world here hoping the rest of the bells will ring in the same tune :
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1637

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
these fowre were Hawten , Nicolls , Winch , and Dodderidge .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1638

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The divorcement twixt the earle of Essex and his Lady is on foote ,
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1639

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I thincke will come shortly to a conclusion .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1640

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt hath ben heard at Lambeth before certain commissioners twise or
thrise , CHAMBER,I,456.036.1641

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but a huis clos : CHAMBER,I,456.036.1642

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
all the difficultie is that though he be willing to confesse his
insufficiencie towards her , yet he will be left at libertie to marrie
any other , and stands upon yt that he is maleficiatus only ad illam :
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1643

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
now some lawiers are of opinion that yf she will sweare that he is
impotent towards her there is sufficient cause of divorce , which is
thought she will make no bones of , beeing as she presumes provided of
a second which I shold never have suspected , but that great folkes
will have theyre ends without respect of frends or followers .
CHAMBER,I,456.036.1644

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene is not yet returned from the Bath or therabout having ben at
Bristow , <P_I,457> and receved great entertainment at divers places
with which and the countrie sports they make her she is so pleased that
yt is thought she will make many more such progresses .
CHAMBER,I,457.036.1645

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She is not looked for at Greenwich till Saterday come sevenight .
CHAMBER,I,457.036.1646

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King goes as far as Windsor to meet her . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1647

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time the ambassador of Savoy spends his time merrily ,
CHAMBER,I,457.036.1648

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is much with the King , CHAMBER,I,457.036.1649

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Sonday night was very solemnly feasted in Holborn by Sir Robert
Rich : CHAMBER,I,457.036.1650

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Tewsday he was at the Lord Mayors where besides all other cheere
they had a play : CHAMBER,I,457.036.1651

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Signor Fabritio is never from him CHAMBER,I,457.036.1652

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
indeed yt is all the worke he hath to do : CHAMBER,I,457.036.1653

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
young Fabritio was almost killed a fortnight since by the running away
of a coach . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1654

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have had the Duke of Savoyes declaration here above this fortnight ,
CHAMBER,I,457.036.1655

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is putting into English , CHAMBER,I,457.036.1656

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they were sold ordinarily for two pence : CHAMBER,I,457.036.1657

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but now I am to geve you thancks for the booke of Ragguagli you sent me
by Sir William Barnes . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1658

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I read the most part of yt at my beeing this Whitsontide at Ware-parke
, CHAMBER,I,457.036.1659

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though to me that understand so litle of those courts and courses
of Italie he be darke , and in many places had need of a comment , yet
I find him full of wittie conceits , and sound judgement , saving where
he dare not declare himself , CHAMBER,I,457.036.1660

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and me thinckes yt is a prettie manner of essayes cookt after a new
fashion . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1661

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our Aldermen have new privie seales for a peece , before theyre old
monie be payed in . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1662

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Hare of the Court of Wards is lately dead upon a weekes warning
, having for ought I heare left his sonne there with you but a yeare
and his office wherof he had the reversion : but with limitation that
he live in England . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1663

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have likewise lost Sir George Gifford , whose losse I thincke had
ben lesse both-2 for himself and his posteritie yf he had gon thirty
yeares ago . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1664

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1665

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this of June 1613 . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1666

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1667

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:59
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:40
LETTER:CHAMBER_036:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie at Venice . CHAMBER,I,457.036.1668

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_037> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,458>

{ED:176._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_June_10,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : At my comming to towne I met with your letter of
the 24=th= of May , wherby I was glad to understand how well you were
discharged of that great care and charge had lien so long upon you .
CHAMBER,I,458.037.1669

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my return I found litle alteration here , saving that our frends
affayres go rather backward then forward , one reason wherof <paren>
among many others </paren> is that those businesses beeing parted among
divers that were wont to have recourse only to one , every body is loth
to leave his hold , or the advantage of valuing himself in the Kings
favor , and having accesse to his eare . CHAMBER,I,458.037.1670

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Overberie lies still by yt CHAMBER,I,458.037.1671

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for ought I heare is like to do : CHAMBER,I,458.037.1672

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Robert Maunsell hath ben in the Marshalsee this fortnight for
animating the Lord Admirall against a commission geven to review and
reforme the disorders committed by the officers of the navie :
CHAMBER,I,458.037.1673

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Whitlocke the lawier is in the Fleet for two causes , first for
speaking too boldly against the authoritie of the marshall-court , and
then for geving his opinion that this commission was not according to
law , though he gave yt but in privat to his client , and not under his
hand . CHAMBER,I,458.037.1674

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The divorce twixt the earle of Essex and his Lady is on foote ,
CHAMBER,I,458.037.1675

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath ben argued twise or thrise at Lambeth before certain
commissioners , CHAMBER,I,458.037.1676

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but a huis clos . CHAMBER,I,458.037.1677

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The greatest difficultie is that though he be willing to confesse his
insufficiencie towards her , yet he wold have libertie to marrie with
any other , as beeing maleficiatus only ad illam .
CHAMBER,I,458.037.1678

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet some lawiers are of opinion that yf she will take her oath that he
is impotent towards her , yt will serve the turne , wherof yt is
thought she will make no bones , as presuming that she is provided of a
second , which I shold never have suspected , but that I know he was
with her three howres together within these two dayes , which makes me
somwhat to stagger and to thincke that great folkes to compasse theyre
owne ends have neither-5 respect to frends nor followers .
CHAMBER,I,458.037.1679

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The matter of Suttons hospitall after much ventilating is brought at
last to be a checquer-chamber-case where yt must be argued <P_I,459> by
all the judges : CHAMBER,I,459.037.1680

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the atturny generall hath spoken excellently for yt , and the
Sollicitor as wittilie and ingeniously against yt
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1681

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but on Saterday last the fowre puisne judges Hawten , Nicolls , Winch
and Dodderidge went all cleerly with yt , which hath much revived the
world hoping the rest of the bells will kepe the same tune , which came
so much against expectation that the next day a great man asked the
Lord Chauncellor yf those puisne judges were as full of law as they
wold seeme to be of charitie , CHAMBER,I,459.037.1682

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt was the lesse looked for because Hawten is a Norfolke man and
sometimes recorder of Norwich and lately advanced and knighted by the
contrarie side . CHAMBER,I,459.037.1683

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There be divers ydle papers and riddles <paren> as I heare </paren>
cast abrode CHAMBER,I,459.037.1684

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there were found in Grayes Ynne two lame hexameter verses , without
head or foot to my understanding , CHAMBER,I,459.037.1685

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I know not what construction to make of them ,
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1686

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they go thus as I could carie them away at once hearing .
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1687

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Curans , Lord Compton , Whitlocke , Overberie , Mansfeld :
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1688

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevill , Starchamber , Sutton , Scot , Baylie , divorcement .
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1689

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene is not yet come home from the Bath where and at Bristow and
thereabout she hath ben so well entertained with varietie of delights
and countrie sports , that she hath taken great pleasure in the journy
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1690

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt is thought she will make more of those progresses .
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1691

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the mean time the ambassador of Savoy takes his pleasure
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1692

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is very well entertained by the King ; CHAMBER,I,459.037.1693

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on Sonday night Sir Robert Rich made him a great supper with a banket
and a play in Holborn : CHAMBER,I,459.037.1694

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on Tewsday he was at the Lord Mayors where he had likewise great
entertainment . CHAMBER,I,459.037.1695

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Wotton leaves him not an ynch , CHAMBER,I,459.037.1696

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thincke yt is the greatest busines he hath to do ,
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1697

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sure I am of opinion that his blowing the cole to find himself
worke in these matters of Savoy , hath cost the King many a fayre penny
; CHAMBER,I,459.037.1698

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God knowes to what purpose . CHAMBER,I,459.037.1699

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our Aldermen have new privie seales for apeece , though theyre old
monie be not yet payed in . CHAMBER,I,459.037.1700

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hare of the court of wards is lately dead , CHAMBER,I,459.037.1701

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is Sir George Gifford , and Doctor Rive warden of New College .
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1702

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kings progresse begins about the 12=th= of the next moneth ,
CHAMBER,I,459.037.1703

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and holds on from Windsor to Farnham to Basing to Andover to Salisburie
, so to the New Forrest and the earle of Southamptons where he meanes
to stay twelve nights and then homeward again . CHAMBER,I,459.037.1704

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance of my <P_I,460> best service to my goode Lady ,
I commend you and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,460.037.1705

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this of June 1613 . CHAMBER,I,460.037.1706

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,460.037.1707

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_037:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,460.037.1708

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_038> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_RALPH_WINWOOD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563>

<P_I,465>

{ED:179._TO_SIR_RALPH_WINWOOD.}

{ED:London,_July_8,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very goode Lord : I was in hope to have seen you here before this
time , CHAMBER,I,465.038.1709

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
els had you heard of me before now ; CHAMBER,I,465.038.1710

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I was caried away with the common bruit that you were sent for ,
which I assure you was very currant both-3 in court and citie :
CHAMBER,I,465.038.1711

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf yt fall out otherwise , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} thincke but yt
was don <font> <paren> a desseign </paren> </font> to divert some such
purpose by a fore-running report . CHAMBER,I,465.038.1712

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For my part though I do not easilie beleve such alarmes , <paren>
specially when matters have hunge so long in suspence , </paren> yet I
was now caried away with the streame to geve credit <font> <paren> a
credit </paren> </font> without further ground , wherby I see yt is
true that facile credimus quod volumus . CHAMBER,I,465.038.1713

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King and Quene are now both in towne the one at Whitehall the other
at Somerset house preparing for the progresse , which is to begin about
the 16=th= of this present . CHAMBER,I,465.038.1714

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the mean time the King meanes to entertain himself at Wansted and
Tiballs or there about . CHAMBER,I,465.038.1715

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath lately geven audience to the Irish commissioners sent from the
parlement , which are the Lord of Gormanstown and the Lord of Dunboine
, for the upper house , with two knights and two lawiers for the lower
. CHAMBER,I,465.038.1716

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They have ben patiently heard and well treated , though all they could
say were to litle effect , the King himself refelling and retorting
theyre arguments upon themselves : CHAMBER,I,465.038.1717

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I heare there be many more great men come thence very lately ,
which peradventure have somwhat els to say ; CHAMBER,I,465.038.1718

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet howsoever yt fall out , this busines hath wrought <P_I,466> this
goode effect , that we begin to have a better eye to Ireland ,
CHAMBER,I,466.038.1719

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and goode store of powder and munition is sent thether alredy , and
order taken for monie to follow , which is durus sermo in this time of
penurie and want . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1720

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesterday was sevenight the archbishop of Caunterburie with the Lord
Privie-seale , the bishops of London and Ely , the Lord Cooke and
others <paren> put in trust by Sutton in his will </paren> went to the
Charterhouse to take possession , and consult about the disposing and
ordering of that great worke . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1721

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The divorce twixt the earle of Essex and his Lady goes not so fast
forward as was expected . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1722

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady for her part hath performed all that belonged to her , and
indured all trialls , CHAMBER,I,466.038.1723

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he is gon into the countrie , with protestation to stand to and
abide what the commissioners shall award : CHAMBER,I,466.038.1724

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but that will not serve the turne , CHAMBER,I,466.038.1725

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there be certain proceedings wherin his presence is necessarilie
required ; so that yt is thought the matter $will $be {TEXT:wilbe}
protracted to see yf yt will fall of yt self , CHAMBER,I,466.038.1726

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the case is so difficult and of so daungerous and scandalous
consequence , that there is no hope that any sentence will geve
satisfaction . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1727

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare of nothing yet don or saide to that Cotton that was proclaimed
, so that yt shold seeme the matter is not yet ripe , or he not so
faultie as was suspected . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1728

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The farmers of the customes for wines have ben called in question for
defrauding the King CHAMBER,I,466.038.1729

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this last terme theyre patent was sequestred in the chauncerie ,
CHAMBER,I,466.038.1730

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they must redeeme themselves as well as they can .
CHAMBER,I,466.038.1731

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was ever of opinion that though they braved yt for a while , yet in
the end they must come out as leane as they went in .
CHAMBER,I,466.038.1732

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Waller lieutenant of Dover Castle is lately dead of a
burning fever , and his place <paren> they say </paren> bestowed upon
one Sir Lionell Cranfeild a marchant of this towne of Ingrams
profession , who is growne in great favor with the Lord Privie-seale ,
and rides ordinarilie in coach with him , and by his meanes was
knighted on Sonday last . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1733

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lords are busie in ordering the Princes house , which is to be kept
at Richmond during the Kings absence . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1734

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Marques de Villa ambassador of Savoy went hence some fortnight
since by the way of Flushing not daring to adventure himself thorough
Fraunce . CHAMBER,I,466.038.1735

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He stayed at least three weekes to present certain toyes of christall
to the Quene , beeing defrayed all the time at the Kings charge after
the rate of a day : CHAMBER,I,466.038.1736

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he had a present of plate at parting of , and a jewell of the Quene of
. CHAMBER,I,466.038.1737

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Henry Wotton was never from his elbow during his beeing heere
CHAMBER,I,466.038.1738

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed these employments of Savoy are his <P_I,467> only busines
that kepe him in breath . CHAMBER,I,467.038.1739

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath reason to entertain them , and blowe the cole as beeing his
owne and only worke , which hath cost the King many a fayre pennie ,
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1740

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the world marvayles what use he can make of this strict entercourse
with Savoy a Prince every way so decried and weake .
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1741

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare Sir H. Wottons Secretarie that he left at Turin , hath made a
solemne pas de clerc , by beeing perswaded by that Duke to go to Geneva
and perswade them to put themselves into his Majesties protection
without any warrant from hence . CHAMBER,I,467.038.1742

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sure yt must nedes be a straunge proposition to them that have ben so
long and still are under the protection of the French :
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1743

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it is sutable that discipulus shold not be supra magistrum , but
follow him in these grosse errors and extravagant courses , which he
shuffles and shifts withall well enough , and procures fortunes and
favors for his followers , CHAMBER,I,467.038.1744

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as I heare his nephew Morton is like to be Clarke of the counsaile ,
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1745

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt is looked every day when he shall be sworne .
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1746

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt may be you have not heard of the earle of Northumberlands swaggering
not long since in the Towre and beating Ruthen <paren> the earle
Gowries brother </paren> for crossing him in his walke in the garden :
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1747

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the burning of the Globe or play-house on the banck-side on St.
Peters day $can $not {TEXT:cannot} scape you , which fell out by a
peale of chambers <paren> that I know not upon what occasion were to be
used in the play , </paren> CHAMBER,I,467.038.1748

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the tampin or stoppell of one of them lighting in the thatch that
covered the house , burned yt downe to the ground in lesse then two
howres with a dwelling house adjoyning : CHAMBER,I,467.038.1749

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yt was a great marvayle and fayre grace of God , that the people
had so litle harme , having but two narrow doores to get out .
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1750

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am to morrow to go into the countrie for most part of this sommer ,
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1751

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I shall still hearken after you , CHAMBER,I,467.038.1752

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and will not geve over my hopes . CHAMBER,I,467.038.1753

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you and all yours to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1754

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 8=th= of July 1613 . CHAMBER,I,467.038.1755

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,467.038.1756

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:RALPH_WINWOOD:MALE:_:1563:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_038:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir Rafe Winwod knight Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Haghe .
CHAMBER,I,467.038.1757

<Q_CHM_A_1613_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_039> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,495>

{ED:188._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_December_30,_1613.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : I thought I shold have had a world of newes to
advertise this weeke , CHAMBER,I,495.039.1758

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yt falles out in this as yt doth commonly in other thinges that the
speach and expectation goes far beyond the matter .
CHAMBER,I,495.039.1759

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The mariage was upon Sonday without any such braverie as was looked for
, CHAMBER,I,495.039.1760

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only some of his followers bestowed cost on themselves ,
CHAMBER,I,495.039.1761

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the rest exceeded not either-1 in number or expence .
CHAMBER,I,495.039.1762

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She was maried in her haire and led to chappell by her bridemen a Duke
of Saxonie <paren> that is here </paren> and the earle of Northampton
her great uncle . CHAMBER,I,495.039.1763

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The dean of Westminster preached CHAMBER,I,495.039.1764

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bestowed a great deale of commendation on the younge couple , on
the Countesse of Salisburie , and the mother-vine <paren> as he termed
her </paren> the Countesse of Suffolke . CHAMBER,I,495.039.1765

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Deane of the chappell coupled them , which fell out somwhat
straungely that the same man , shold marrie the same person , in the
same place , upon the self-same day <paren> after sixe or seven yeares
I know not whether </paren> the former partie yet living :
CHAMBER,I,495.039.1766

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
all the difference was that the Kinge gave her the last time , and now
her father . CHAMBER,I,495.039.1767

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King and Quene were both present CHAMBER,I,495.039.1768

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tasted <P_I,496> wafers and ypocras as at ordinarie weddings .
CHAMBER,I,496.039.1769

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare litle or no commendation of the maske made by the Lords that
night , either-1 for devise or dauncing , CHAMBER,I,496.039.1770

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only yt was rich and costly . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1771

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The maskers were the Duke of Lennox , the earles of Pembroke ,
Mongomery , Dorset and Salisburie , the Lord Walden with his three
brethren Sir Thomas , Henry , and Sir Charles Howard , the Lord Scroope
, Lord North and Lord Haye . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1772

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next day the King , Prince , bridegroome and others ran at the
ringe , CHAMBER,I,496.039.1773

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yesterday there was a medley maske of five English and five Scotts
, <paren> which was called the high dauncers , </paren> among whom
Sergeant Boide , one Abraham Crummie , and Ackmoutie <paren> that was
at Padoua and Venice </paren> are esteemed the most principall and
loftie , CHAMBER,I,496.039.1774

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but how yt succeeded I heare not . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1775

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The archbishop of Caunterburie was at the mariage but not the bishop of
London . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1776

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Rafe Winwod was there likewise CHAMBER,I,496.039.1777

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had a very fayre payre of gloves of three pound price : which he
well deserved CHAMBER,I,496.039.1778

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he made a suit of apparell against this wedding of only doublet ,
hose and cloke , all blacke and without any kinde of gold , silver , or
embroderie that cost him above fowrescore pound , which I write that
you may see how unreasonablie thinges are risen here , and what a
chargeable world we live in . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1779

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He presented a very fayre basen and ewre of 225 ounces that was geven
him by the States , and of so excellent workemanship , that the
goldsmiths have offered an ounce for yt . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1780

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The presents indeed were more in number and value , then ever I thincke
were geven to any subject in this land . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1781

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt were too long , CHAMBER,I,496.039.1782

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neither cold I yf I wold set downe the tenth part
CHAMBER,I,496.039.1783

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but for a taste of all you shall have some few that come neere to hand
. CHAMBER,I,496.039.1784

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The citie , the Marchant Adventurers , the East Indian Companie , the
Farmers of the customes sent all theyre several presents of plate to a
great value : which belike was well taken CHAMBER,I,496.039.1785

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Lord Maior and sheriffes had rich gloves sent in requitall .
CHAMBER,I,496.039.1786

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas Lake gave six goodly candlestickes , that cost above a
thousand markes . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1787

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Robert Carie and Sir Robert Mansfeld lighted both upon one
invention which was fire-shovell , tongues and irons , creepers and all
furniture of a chimney of silver : CHAMBER,I,496.039.1788

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
another gave a cradell of silver to burne sea-cole .
CHAMBER,I,496.039.1789

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Fulke Grivell gave a cup of gold , Sir Charles Wilmot a warming-pan
of gold , the Countesse of Shrewsburie a basen and ewre , two pots and
some vessells all of gold . CHAMBER,I,496.039.1790

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Cooke was more moderate CHAMBER,I,496.039.1791

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for <P_I,497> he gave but a fayre basen and ewre of silver and gilt ,
and his Lady a cup of fowrescore pound value . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1792

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The earle of Excester gave a basen and ewre of gold and his Lady a pot
of gold . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1793

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Burgley , his Lady , and both his daughters had very fayre
gloves CHAMBER,I,497.039.1794

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} learne that he gave any thing .
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1795

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Belike he thinckes his fathers bountie may stand for both .
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1796

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Admirall gave a very rich basen and ewre of gold set with
stone , that was geven him by the King of Spaine .
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1797

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Privie-seales present was plate to the value of fifteen
hundred pound , besides a sword to the bridegroome , the hilts and all
the furniture of gold curiously wrought and enammeled .
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1798

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The very workmanship cost a hundred marke , and the sword five hundred
pound . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1799

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The earle of Salisburie gave one suit of hangings that cost his father
fifteen hundred pound , and another suit of . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1800

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You may guesse at the rest by this scantling . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1801

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir William Bowier hath lost his eldest sonne Sir Henry .
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1802

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was a fine dauncer CHAMBER,I,497.039.1803

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shold have ben of the maske , CHAMBER,I,497.039.1804

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but over-heating himself with practising he fell into the small pocks
CHAMBER,I,497.039.1805

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and died , leaving a sonne , and a younge widow the only daughter of
Salter one of the Farmers . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1806

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So praying you to commend me to Master Horne and Master Waake , I wish
you many goode yeares CHAMBER,I,497.039.1807

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and commit you to God . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1808

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this of December 1613 . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1809

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:59
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_039:E2:1613:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,497.039.1810

<Q_CHM_A_1614_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_040> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,497>

{ED:189._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_January_5,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Phill Lyttons arrivall at Venice $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} welcome newes to Knebworth , whether I am presently
sending , and whence <P_I,498> I know you shall not be long unsaluted .
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1811

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wrote somwhat the last weeke to your sister of this great mariage ,
which continues still in gallantrie and triumphes ,
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1812

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the presents of plate and jewells increase dayly ,
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1813

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} learne that they rise to such a summe
as was supposed : CHAMBER,I,498.040.1814

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for they are not valued by the goldsmithes above $=li= {TEXT:12000=li=}
. CHAMBER,I,498.040.1815

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene gave certain silver dishes curiously enameled , the Spanish
ambassador a jewell <paren> they say </paren> of yf yt hold goode ,
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1816

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the Lord Admiralls basen and ewre of gold geven him in Spaine , is
saide not to prove pure metall now yt comes to the touch .
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1817

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Arthur Ingram gave a whole furniture or implements of a kitchen of
silver , besides two perles to the bride that cost him three hundred
pound : CHAMBER,I,498.040.1818

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yt were to litle purpose to go on further in this course
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1819

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore I will conclude with a curious bride-cake that cost five
pound geven by the bishop of Bristowes wife . CHAMBER,I,498.040.1820

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The loftie maskers were so well liked at court the last weeke that they
were appointed to performe yt again on Monday CHAMBER,I,498.040.1821

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet theyre devise <paren> which was a mimicall imitation of the Irish
</paren> was not pleasing to many , who thincke yt no time <paren> as
the case stands </paren> to exasperat that nation by making yt
ridiculous . CHAMBER,I,498.040.1822

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On new-yearesday was the tilting of ten against ten .
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1823

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bases , trappings and all other furniture of the one partie was
murrey and white which were the brides colours , the other green and
yellow for the bridegroome . CHAMBER,I,498.040.1824

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There were two handsom chariots or pageants that brought in two Cupids
, whose contention was whether were the truer his or hers , each
maintained by theyre champions , CHAMBER,I,498.040.1825

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the current and prise you must thincke ran on her side .
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1826

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The whole shew <paren> they say </paren> was very fayre and well set
out . CHAMBER,I,498.040.1827

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I do not redilie remember all theyre names , nor how they were sided ,
CHAMBER,I,498.040.1828

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but besides the Duke of Lennox there were the earles of Rutland ,
Pembroke , Mongomerie , Dorset , the Lords Chaundos , Scroope , Compton
, North , Haye , Dingwell , the Lord Walden and his brethren , Sir
Henry Carie and I know not who els save the Lord Norris , who when the
nullitie was on foote and in forwardnes , <paren> not knowing she was
so well provided </paren> made tender of himself to the Lord
Chamberlain for this daughter , yf he might be rid of his Lady <paren>
which he thought an <P_I,499> easie matter to do </paren> but was
rejected non sine risu of all that heard of yt . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1829

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Mayor was sent to by the King to entertain this new maried
couple with theyre frends and followers , CHAMBER,I,499.040.1830

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he making an excuse that his house was too litle to receve them ,
yt was not accepted , but word sent backe that he might commaund the
biggest hall in the towne : wherupon calling a counsaile yt was
resolved to do yt at the charge of the citie in the Marchant-taylers
hall upon fowre dayes warning , CHAMBER,I,499.040.1831

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thether they went yesternight about sixe a clocke , thorough
Cheapside all by torchlight , accompanied by the father and mother of
the bride , and all the Lords and Ladies about the court .
CHAMBER,I,499.040.1832

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The men were well mounted and richly arrayed making a goodly shew , the
women all in coaches . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1833

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I do not heare yet how all things passed there CHAMBER,I,499.040.1834

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have not ben abrode , CHAMBER,I,499.040.1835

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only I understand that after supper they had a play and a maske and
after that a banket . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1836

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bride had a goodly new rich coach , which could not be furnished
with fowre horses to theyre mind , so that Sir Rafe Winwod was moved on
Sonday night to lend his , <paren> those that you may remember he had
here fowre or five yeares ago and are now as fayre or fayrer then ever
they were </paren> . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1837

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He made aunswer that yt was not for such a Lady to use any thing
borrowed CHAMBER,I,499.040.1838

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore the next morning presented them to the great Lord , who
made some difficultie at first to receve them of guift , but only as
lent for this solemnitie of going through the citie but in the end
tooke them in very goode part . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1839

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Atturneyes maske is for to morrow , and for a conclusion of
Christmas and these shewes together , CHAMBER,I,499.040.1840

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the King sayes he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} gon toward Roiston upon
Friday . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1841

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Before the holy-dayes the French and Venetian ambassadors were invited
to this maske , with excuse that they could not be so well at the first
upon the mariage-night , for avoyding competition of place and
precedence with the Spanish ambassador who had never seen any of our
shewes before : CHAMBER,I,499.040.1842

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the best maske was reserved for them . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1843

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French seemed to take yt well enough : CHAMBER,I,499.040.1844

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Venetian stormed he shold be excluded and the archdukes
admitted , who he presumed wold not once make offer to take place where
he was . CHAMBER,I,499.040.1845

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir William Constable is dead at the Brill and his companie geven by
the King to a Scot , CHAMBER,I,499.040.1846

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but Sir Horatio Vere had bestowed <P_I,500> yt before on a sonne of Sir
Edward Conwayes , which stands goode . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1847

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Trumball <paren> though absent </paren> is admitted clarke of
the counsaile in ordinarie by the resignation of Sir Thomas Edmonds for
which he geves him . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1848

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deckam is sworne master of requests and made a commissioner in sale of
the Kings landes . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1849

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is what I can certifie you that passeth here de facto ,
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1850

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what may be or $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} or $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} ,
he were a cunning man could devine , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1851

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for here is such discoursing , such working , plotting and supplanting
, that what stands right to day is awrie to morow ,
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1852

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and every day bringes new alterations , so that they are driven to
hammer and square out new projects , which not succeding mutant
quadrata rotundis , and turn the biais another way .
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1853

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They say yt is a pleasure for a man not interested to looke upon
gamsters , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1854

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in goode faith I am so wearied with these varieties of discourse ,
that I thincke yt a miserable distraction , and torture both-2 of body
and mind . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1855

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I feare our goode frend $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} led along as others have
ben , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1856

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what can he do ? CHAMBER,I,500.040.1857

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Lupum auribus tenet . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1858

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He knowes not how to hold , nor how to let go , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1859

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither does he constare sibi at all times , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1860

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but suffers himself to be caried away from his owne positions and
judgement , by some whose wisdome <paren> though much esteemed </paren>
I never admired , and who peradventure yf they $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
have yt as they wold , yet can be content to have him fall into the
same pit : CHAMBER,I,500.040.1861

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for my part I thincke verely theyre companie and conversation hath
don him more harme , and hindered him more , then all the ennemies he
hath . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1862

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He hath now chaunged his mind of demaunding his dispatch ,
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1863

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he is told that he stands upright , CHAMBER,I,500.040.1864

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this might marre all . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1865

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The great man had some conference with him lately touching your
succeding him , which he seconded by all the meanes {by}_P he could :
so that yf matters fall out well , we hope to have you neerer ,
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1866

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yet refuse not any meanes or help you may have to further yt .
CHAMBER,I,500.040.1867

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1868

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 5=th= of January 1613 . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1869

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1870

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_040:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie at Venice . CHAMBER,I,500.040.1871

<Q_CHM_A_1614_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_041> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,511>

{ED:194._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_17,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : In your last letter of the 24=th= of January you
make mention of much hard wether you have had this winter :
CHAMBER,I,511.041.1872

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} greatly complaine of any extraordinarie cold
, CHAMBER,I,511.041.1873

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yet yt hath ben sharpe enough , CHAMBER,I,511.041.1874

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lasts so still CHAMBER,I,511.041.1875

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but one thing is much observed that yt hath ben the driest winter that
any man can remember , CHAMBER,I,511.041.1876

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for saving some litle snow now and then , <paren> and that not past
twise or thrise neither </paren> we have not had one halfe howres raine
these three or fowre moneths , insomuch that in many places they are in
distresse for want of water , specially the cattle .
CHAMBER,I,511.041.1877

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is litle newes to write . CHAMBER,I,511.041.1878

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All that was , your cousen Antonie tells me he sent last weeke .
CHAMBER,I,511.041.1879

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The wedding at Eaton <P_I,512> was this day sevenight , where there was
not much companie , more then the bridegroomes frends :
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1880

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they dined all on Saterday at Sir Marmaduke Dorrells , whose sonne
shall marrie Master Hamdens daughter by the Lady Saviles sister .
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1881

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Christofer Pigotts daughter is alredy maried to Sir George Tippings
sonne . CHAMBER,I,512.041.1882

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have learned where Master De Vic found his wife .
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1883

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She was daughter to one Master Hanchet of Hertfordshire .
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1884

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wheeler that was at Venice maried another of the sisters
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1885

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have heard them estemed proper women . CHAMBER,I,512.041.1886

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesterday the Quene feasted all that gave presents to her last bride ,
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1887

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on Shrove-Sonday she marries another of her maides , <paren> one of
the Lady Southwells daughters , </paren> to Radney a man of goode
living in Somerset-shire . CHAMBER,I,512.041.1888

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not whether you have heard that the Lord St. John <paren> sonne
to the Lord Marques </paren> married a daughter of the Lord Montagues ,
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1889

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but hitherto they agree but untowardly together .
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1890

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a match making twixt the Lord Liles sonne and the Lord
Burleighs eldest daughter , <paren> the finest gentlewoman about the
court </paren> , with portion , CHAMBER,I,512.041.1891

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yt is broken of CHAMBER,I,512.041.1892

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not how . CHAMBER,I,512.041.1893

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Robert Wroths lady after long longing hath brought him a sonne ,
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1894

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and young Sir John Lewsons widow after much suspence and expectation of
an heyre is brought abed of a daughter , as likewise Sir Horatio Veres
Lady who lies at Cheswicke , CHAMBER,I,512.041.1895

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Lady Winwod was there two or three dayes the last weeke at her
labor . CHAMBER,I,512.041.1896

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sent your second bill of exchaunge the last weeke ,
CHAMBER,I,512.041.1897

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thus having nothing more but many goode wishes to yourself , your
<P_I,513> cousen Lytton , Master Horne and Master Waake I commit you to
God . CHAMBER,I,513.041.1898

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 17=th= of February 1613 . CHAMBER,I,513.041.1899

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,513.041.1900

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_041:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my very goode frend Mistris Alice Carleton at the Lord Ambassadors
at Venice . CHAMBER,I,513.041.1901

<Q_CHM_A_1614_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_042> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,513>

{ED:195._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_24,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : Among all the mariages I made mention of the last
weeke , I forgat one of the most principall , which was Mistris Jones
younger daughter , who was maried the same day to Skinner a marchants
sonne of this towne , a goode proper younge man and that shall have
after his father and mothers decease better then $=li= {TEXT:800=li=}
land a yeare , and in the mean time hath a yeare for his maintenance :
CHAMBER,I,513.042.1902

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though she thincke her self scant bestowed according to her worth ,
yet yt falles out better then yf she had ben $cast away
{TEXT:cast-away} upon Epsley <paren> a man that belongs to the earle of
Northumberland </paren> who had her in chase , and thought himself in
fayre possibilitie to win her and weare her . CHAMBER,I,513.042.1903

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her mother hath likewise intangled herself with Ingram another of the
same crew <paren> who dwells at Thistleworth not far from Sion ,
</paren> CHAMBER,I,513.042.1904

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though she be somtime resolved not to have him , yet she confesseth
she can have no other . CHAMBER,I,513.042.1905

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Younge Mistris Cecill <paren> the Lord Burghleys daughter </paren> for
whom there was a mariage treating with the Lord Liles sonne , hath
since ben in speach for Sir Thomas Howard the Lord Chamberlains second
sonne : which is like enough to go forward , yf the small pockes which
have lately seased on her do not marre the match .
CHAMBER,I,513.042.1906

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They begin to be very rife about this towne , CHAMBER,I,513.042.1907

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have tainted divers young La ... to whom she confesseth
{ED:A_QUARTER_PAGE_HAS_BEEN_TORN_AWAY} CHAMBER,I,513.042.1908

<P_I,514>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
herself , to publish her fowle faults in print to her further shame :
CHAMBER,I,514.042.1909

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I thincke they $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} better advised .
CHAMBER,I,514.042.1910

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene feasted the last weeke all that had given presents to her
bride , at least all the nobilitie , of which there was so great an
assemblie that the Lady Roxborough the bride was the lowest at the
table : CHAMBER,I,514.042.1911

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
that night she likewise feasted all the gentlemen <paren> belonging to
the Earles of Pembroke , Worster , Southampton and others </paren> that
had waited at the mariage CHAMBER,I,514.042.1912

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave them thanckes and her hand to kisse : CHAMBER,I,514.042.1913

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she wold not be served by any of the Kings servants .
CHAMBER,I,514.042.1914

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare young Sidley talkes of travayling alredy .
CHAMBER,I,514.042.1915

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The writts are gon out for the parlement to begin the fifth of Aprill .
CHAMBER,I,514.042.1916

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So prayeng you to remember me to your cousen Lytton , Master Horne and
Master Wake I commit you to God . CHAMBER,I,514.042.1917

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 24=th= of February 1613 . CHAMBER,I,514.042.1918

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,514.042.1919

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_042:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my very goode frend Mistris Alice Carleton at the Lord Ambassadors
at Venice . CHAMBER,I,514.042.1920

<Q_CHM_A_1614_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_043> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,530>

{ED:202._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_May_19,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : On Friday last the 13=th= of this present I
receved your letter of the 22=th= of Aprill , CHAMBER,I,530.043.1921

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and by goode hap meeting Master Secretarie at home that night imparted
unto him so much as you wisht me to do ; CHAMBER,I,530.043.1922

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
how he apprehends yt I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} precisely tell you ,
CHAMBER,I,530.043.1923

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for his aunswer was only in generall termes , that he wold be redy in
all occasions that lay in him , though for Eton yt seemed to him a
matter of great difficultie whensoever yt shold fall out , unles you
were present to follow yt yourself . CHAMBER,I,530.043.1924

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet I wold not wish you to geve over the pretension and pursuit , but
to continue yt by all the goode meanes you may : CHAMBER,I,530.043.1925

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt will not be amisse to rub over and refresh his memorie sometimes
upon fit occasions , which may serve for a kind of continuall claime ,
and is held for a speciall poynt of lawe . CHAMBER,I,530.043.1926

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He hath now his head and his handes full of busines
CHAMBER,I,530.043.1927

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
what with the parlement where he is all the morning , and at committees
in the afternoone , and with other affaires pertaining to his place ,
wherin he is yet scant warme and not thoroughly setled :
CHAMBER,I,530.043.1928

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the worst of all is that he hath brought the whole Clergie on his
backe from the highest to the lowest by the speach I mentioned in my
last ; which indeed was mistaken , CHAMBER,I,530.043.1929

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they take yt the more unkindly at his handes , that comming from
conversing <paren> as they say </paren> with litle better then
Brownists he shold at first dash adventure to traduce the whole Clergie
, <P_I,531> and lay such an imputation and scandall upon our church :
wherin he treades the same steps with his predecessor-secretaries who
have ben still observed to be opposite to the church ,
CHAMBER,I,531.043.1930

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he wants not theyre charitie to paint him out to the King for one
that seekes to make himself head of the puritan faction ,
CHAMBER,I,531.043.1931

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither do they forbeare to besprinkle him in the pulpit , and in the
convocation house , where yt was in question <paren> yf yt hold on
</paren> to make and set out some apologie for themselves upon this
imputation CHAMBER,I,531.043.1932

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he hath satisfied the King in these points sufficiently ,
CHAMBER,I,531.043.1933

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for the rest holds up his head , CHAMBER,I,531.043.1934

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and goes on with much alacritie . CHAMBER,I,531.043.1935

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The parlement is now altogether occupied in crieng downe impositions ,
and searching recordes for that purpose CHAMBER,I,531.043.1936

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but with what successe we shall see hereafter . CHAMBER,I,531.043.1937

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the mean time the great clamor against undertakers is well quieted ,
beeing brought to this yssue that on Saterday last Sir Henry Nevill was
driven to owne and advow a paper much cavilled at , and did in so goode
manner informe them , and justifie the whole cariage of that busines ,
both-2 for the goode of the realm and the King , that he not only
calmed theyre troubled spirits , but wan himself much credit and
commendation . CHAMBER,I,531.043.1938

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Tewsday Dicke Martin came to the parlement house as a counsaillor to
plead for some course to be held for the upholding of Virginia ,
CHAMBER,I,531.043.1939

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to countenance the cause the earle of Southampton , the Lord
Sheffeild and the Lord De la Ware , came with him
CHAMBER,I,531.043.1940

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and were admitted to be present : CHAMBER,I,531.043.1941

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but after a while having spoken but litle in the cause he came for , he
fell to ripping up what had passed : since theyre sitting , taxing them
for theyre slow proceding , for theyre disorderly cariage , and
schooling them what they shold do , with divers odde glaunces ,
wherwith he so discontented them that after he was gon there was much
arguing what course they shold take with him , CHAMBER,I,531.043.1942

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and in the end yt was agreed he shold be called to the barre and
aunswer his misdemeanure : CHAMBER,I,531.043.1943

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so yesterday he appeared there CHAMBER,I,531.043.1944

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and with much shew of humilitie and submission did so insinuate himself
into them that after a while they remitted his kneeling , and in
respect of his goode service heretofore in that house did after some
admonition cleerly release him : CHAMBER,I,531.043.1945

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Lords that accompanied him are more angry with him then all the
rest , CHAMBER,I,531.043.1946

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and will not be satisfied . CHAMBER,I,531.043.1947

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus you see though he abstained from beeing of the parlement for feare
of beeing transported and doing himself harme , yet yt was in fatis
that he shold shame himself in that house . CHAMBER,I,531.043.1948

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sergeant Buoy of the seller was on Tewsday committed to the <P_I,532>
Marshalsee for that lieng in Sir Thomas Gardiners house as a frend , he
abused his daughter under colour of mariage having a wife and nine
children in Scotland . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1949

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Lake though he be a counsaillor , yet kepes his Clarkeship
of the Signet still , so willing he is to play small game rather then
sit out altogether from gettings , CHAMBER,I,532.043.1950

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yet he aymes at the Chauncellorship of the Duchie , which Sir
Thomas Parrie is content to resigne to Sir Henry Nevill ,
CHAMBER,I,532.043.1951

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but wold hardly be drawne to make roome for the other :
CHAMBER,I,532.043.1952

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
in the mean time I wold Sir Thomas Edmonds had the place , wherunto
Master Secretarie doth incourage him to addresse himself by his frends
and what meanes he can make : CHAMBER,I,532.043.1953

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he is yet here but making away now shortly , unles he could find some
such goode cause for his stay . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1954

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Digby carries himself high CHAMBER,I,532.043.1955

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and lookes after great matters , sayeng he hath ben in the greatest
employment the King hath except the Deputiship of Ireland ,
CHAMBER,I,532.043.1956

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet his allowance exceeds that : CHAMBER,I,532.043.1957

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yt seemes he can stoope no lower from his cloth of state that he used
in Spaine , as likewise his Lady CHAMBER,I,532.043.1958

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I know not per quam regulam : CHAMBER,I,532.043.1959

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he demaunds for his transportation or ... for his comming home ,
CHAMBER,I,532.043.1960

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he is like to get yt at leasure . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1961

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1962

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 19=th= of May 1614 . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1963

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1964

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_043:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie at Venice . CHAMBER,I,532.043.1965

<Q_CHM_A_1614_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_044> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,543>

{ED:207._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_June_30,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : At my comming to towne on Friday last I receved your
letter of the 13=th= of this present , CHAMBER,I,543.044.1966

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and found here with my brother <P_I,544> Richard the boxe of seeds and
plomstones which you wrote I shold receve of Master Blunt in
Pouleschurchyard : CHAMBER,I,544.044.1967

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yt was brought in my absence by a sayler who wold not deliver yt
without a note of my brothers hand for the receyte ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1968

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he wold not be perswaded CHAMBER,I,544.044.1969

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but there was matter of great value in yt , as pearles or diamonds at
least ; CHAMBER,I,544.044.1970

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thancke you for yt though there be litle or nothing in yt , that
$will $be {TEXT:wilbe} now of any use : CHAMBER,I,544.044.1971

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet we will set the plomstones at all adventures , though we have no
great hope of them that they will grow , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1972

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neither yf they shold have I any opinion of the goodnes of Italian
plummes : CHAMBER,I,544.044.1973

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they may bragge of theyre melons and grapes , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1974

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the rest of theyre fruit is not worth the talking of .
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1975

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have set the vine-plants that came from Master Wake as carefully as
we could , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1976

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I am not out of hope but they may prove , though they be very drie
and promise litle by theyre lookes . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1977

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have not yet geven Master Wake thancks for them ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1978

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but will not be long behind with him . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1979

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have promised my Lady Winwod some of them yf they live and do well ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1980

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she takes great delight in flowres and plants ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1981

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is as busie herself in setting and tending of melons , as any
gardner of them all , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1982

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath very goode skill CHAMBER,I,544.044.1983

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and loves fruit as well as any woman I know . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1984

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She is not greatly sory that this yeare is like to prove no better for
fruit , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1985

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she sayes she shold surely have killed herself ;
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1986

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we have had some plants of muscadine grapes from her that were sent her
out of the Low-Countries for excellent goode , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1987

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we trucke and live much by exchaunge that way ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1988

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we furnished her with melon-seed in the Spring ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1989

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent her some growne plants from Ware-parke before Whitsontide .
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1990

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am glad I wrote in so goode time about the glasses and the covers ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1991

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I never had any meaning to have more then the third part with
covers at most , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1992

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfore marvayle how yt shold be mistaken , CHAMBER,I,544.044.1993

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sure unles you could shew me my hand to the contrarie I shold
hardly beleve that I wrote otherwise . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1994

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have not seen your sister Williams since I came to towne though I
have ben there twise . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1995

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The first time she was at a neighbours house at Cards ,
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1996

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the next she was gon to the new Globe to a play .
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1997

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indeed I heare much speach of this new play-house , which is saide to
be the fayrest that ever was in England , so that yf I live but seven
yeares longer I may chaunce make a journy to see yt .
CHAMBER,I,544.044.1998

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In one of my last letters I wrote you that Mistris Lassells was maried
to Dr. Trevire judge of the Admiraltie . CHAMBER,I,544.044.1999

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She is now become a widow <P_I,545> again having buried her doctor this
Whitsontide out of Wingfeld-house . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2000

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He died a very begger CHAMBER,I,545.044.2001

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath left her in worse state then {in}_P he found her .
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2002

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Sonday morning your cousen Smith was brought abed there of a sonne ,
which though he came almost sixe weekes before he was looked for , yet
is very livelie and like to hold out , though but a litle one :
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2003

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Rowland is much joyed at yt , CHAMBER,I,545.044.2004

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I must tell you she is his dearling . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2005

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Arthur Ingrams Lady is likewise brought abed of a sonne which was
christned this day sevenight at Stratford-Bowe where the earle of
Suffolke , the earle of Somerset and the Countesse of Nottingham were
gossips : CHAMBER,I,545.044.2006

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the King in person came into the garden to eat cherries and part of
the banket : CHAMBER,I,545.044.2007

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on Tewsday last he was chosen sheriffe of London ,
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2008

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but hath procured the Kings letters to be discharged :
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2009

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they have chosen two or three more both before and since ,
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2010

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and none of them hold . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2011

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some say yt is because they will not be matcht with Peter Probie who
from beeing somtime Secretarie Walsinghams barber was lately chosen
alderman , and contrarie to expectation tooke yt upon him , which
troubles them all , CHAMBER,I,545.044.2012

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is a shrewde nimble witted fellow . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2013

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Mathew Caries eldest sonne had a quarrell of late with one Captain
Osborn , CHAMBER,I,545.044.2014

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I know not how the matter was handled , CHAMBER,I,545.044.2015

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but between him and Captain Carie of Flushing Osborn is slaine .
CHAMBER,I,545.044.2016

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Captain Carie is fled CHAMBER,I,545.044.2017

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and younge Sir Mathew I heare absents himself . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2018

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your cousen Randall came upon Saterday CHAMBER,I,545.044.2019

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I have not yet seen him . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2020

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with all goode wishes to yourself , Master Horne , Master Wake and
your cousen Lytton I commit you to God . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2021

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this last of June 1614 . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2022

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2023

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:60
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_044:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my very goode frend Mistris Alice Carleton at the Lord Ambassadors
at Venice . CHAMBER,I,545.044.2024

<Q_CHM_A_1614_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_045> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,562>

{ED:215._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON}

{ED:London,_December_15,_1614.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The newes of the Spaniards manner of dealing with
the Duke of Savoy is very unwelcome hither and much detested ,
CHAMBER,I,562.045.2025

<P_I,563>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but perhaps the first alarme is lowdest , and his case not altogether
so desperat as yt is here ymagined . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2026

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your next letters will bring some certaintie , till when we are all in
suspence , and doubt the worst . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2027

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Theyre proceding in the late treatie in the Low-Countries hath ben so
cautelous that we know not yet where to lay the fault , that no better
effects have followed ; CHAMBER,I,563.045.2028

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither as yt seemes do the actors or ambassadors themselves well
understand how the case stands , CHAMBER,I,563.045.2029

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
at leastwise they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} hitherto make others
understand yt clearly , so that our old frend there hath imputations
enough , CHAMBER,I,563.045.2030

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but how he deserves them God knowes : CHAMBER,I,563.045.2031

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet he is generally thought not to be for that turne , the rather for
that yt seemes he is not sufficiently furnished with French , but
negotiats altogether in Italian . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2032

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Edmonds clarke of the counsaile is going over to the Haghe
assisted with two marchants Middleton and Abbot <paren> the Lord of
Canterburies brother </paren> to treat with the States about certain
difficulties betwixt us and them touching the trade of the East Indies
and the fishing at Gronland . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2033

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir H. Wotton is to combine in the busines during his abode there ,
which he is willing shold continue till some twenty or thirty dayes
before he is to be sent to succeed you . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2034

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Finet is returned out of Spaine whether he caried a rabblement
of presents , as pied bulles and kine , grayhounds , spaniells , water
dogges , cormorants , hunting horses , nagges , stone-bowes ,
cross-bowes , curious peeces , truncks and many things els that I
remember not , CHAMBER,I,563.045.2035

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for all his reward had but a chaine of value , and as much monie to
distribute among his companie , which was so unequally devided or they
so unreasonable that they fell out for yt shamefully .
CHAMBER,I,563.045.2036

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Ormond is dead in Ireland , who was the greatest man of
estate in that countrie , and an auncient Knight of the Garter ;
CHAMBER,I,563.045.2037

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the greatest part of his inheritaunce falles to a kinsman : his
daughter not carieng away above $=li= {TEXT:1200=li=} land .
CHAMBER,I,563.045.2038

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of St. Davids is not dead as I wrote you but only in daunger
, CHAMBER,I,563.045.2039

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but we are here so hungrie and sharpe set , that there is nothing got
by tarieng , or shewing modestie . CHAMBER,I,563.045.2040

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dudley Norton had in a sort almost supplanted Sir Richard Cooke and
gotten a graunt of <P_I,564> both his places in Ireland upon suggestion
that he was growne weake and unserviceable , CHAMBER,I,564.045.2041

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but Sir Richard saith he hath gotten yt reversed , yet with this
composition that he is to have a pension of a yeare yf he part with the
secretariship , CHAMBER,I,564.045.2042

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he will not leave his chancellorship of the exchecquer but a bonnes
enseignes , because yt is the only meanes to come by his pension .
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2043

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Secretarie came from Newmarket this day sevenight
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2044

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and went yesterday to meet the King at his comming to Tiballs :
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2045

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
you must thincke he hath his head full , when yt is certainly bruited
<paren> and not unprobablie as this world goes </paren> that Sir Fulke
Grivell is to leave his chauncellorship of the exchecquer , to be made
a baron and principall secretarie , and to have the seales ,
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2046

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but how this comes about and with what conditions , I had rather you
shold heare of others . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2047

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But sure yf this fall out , yf I were Master Secretarie I shold breake
up schoole and go to play : CHAMBER,I,564.045.2048

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for this is no world to thrive in by plaine dealing .
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2049

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The chauncellorship of the exchecquer stands betwixt Sir Thomas Lakes
<paren> who is thought to be pawnde in the house </paren> and Master
Deckham a necessarie ymplement , that alredy takes upon him a kind of
countenance by setling himself at Wansted for his own countrie mansion
and hiring a very fayre house not far from Whitehall .
CHAMBER,I,564.045.2050

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2051

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 15=th= of December 1614 . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2052

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2053

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Secretarie told me on Tewsday night that he wold certainly write
to you this weeke . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2054

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He was then purposed not to go to Tiballs till to morrow , so that
whether this sodain journy may hinder his writing is a question I $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} determine . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2055

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:60
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:41
LETTER:CHAMBER_045:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie at Venice . CHAMBER,I,564.045.2056

<Q_CHM_A_1615_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_046> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,573>

{ED:220._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_1,_1615.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : Yesterday by your brother Williams I receved your
letter of the 16=th= of January , CHAMBER,I,573.046.2057

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} follow your advise therin to sell the
glasses you sent me , CHAMBER,I,573.046.2058

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I had not one left within three dayes after they came to my handes
, having disposed of them all so soone as might be .
CHAMBER,I,573.046.2059

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I found no fault with the mettell which was as <P_I,574> goode as any
of the rest , CHAMBER,I,574.046.2060

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the fashions came short , as almost every body that saw them could
tell me ; so that I could not be quiet till I myself had seene those so
much spoken of , as I did in divers places , wherof I prefer those sent
to Sir Thomas Edmonds before all the rest , and am reasonablie
satisfied that mine shold be eclipsed , that others presents might
shine the more : and am the rather satisfied for that with much hunting
I lighted on halfe a dosen <paren> to save my longing </paren> as
curious as the best but that they wanted covers , and cost litle above
twenty shillings at Robsons handes that was the glasse-master :
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2061

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in this searching up and downe I am as yt were halfe surfetted with
the sight of glasses , CHAMBER,I,574.046.2062

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I brought the Lady Winwod and the Lady Fanshaw to see in one roome
and in one view above eight hundred dosen of glasses that came all in
the same ship with mine wherby you may see that this towne is throughly
furnished of that commoditie , and no great estimation to be made of
them unles they be somwhat extraordinarie and rare .
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2063

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now for the candlesticks you shall need take no more care ,
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2064

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt was the lucke of both paire to meet in one place
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2065

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but one thing I will intreat more yf yt may be had , that you wold
procure halfe a dosen such looking glasses as you sent me , which are
so well liked of that my Lady Winwod hath ben in hand with me twise or
thrise , and no longer ago then yesternight to get her so many , to
furnish both her houses , and wold have them such in all points as
neere as may be both-8 for bignes , goodnes , and setting out :
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2066

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and let them be directed to her . CHAMBER,I,574.046.2067

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She wold have delivered me monie yf I could have told her what they
cost , which I pray you let me know by your next : and how you are
furnished with monie that your provision may be sent you , or any thing
you wold have don in that kind . CHAMBER,I,574.046.2068

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretarie went on Monday toward the King to Newmarket , in as
hard and cold weather as came this yeare : CHAMBER,I,574.046.2069

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt hath ben very sharpe these ten dayes with much frost and snow ,
which continues still and so is like to do , for ought I see .
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2070

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Thames hath not ben passable , but in a manner closed up almost
this sevenight . CHAMBER,I,574.046.2071

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The flouds I wrote you of the last weeke did a great deale more harme
then I could then tell you , CHAMBER,I,574.046.2072

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we have certain notice of more then twenty drowned that Saterday
within forty miles compasse of this towne . CHAMBER,I,574.046.2073

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other news here is none at all but that the Lord Chauncellor hath ben
these seven or eight dayes very sicke , and so continues ,
CHAMBER,I,574.046.2074

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I heard <P_I,575> yesterday that he was somwhat amended .
CHAMBER,I,575.046.2075

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Lady sayes she doubts she shall loose her chauncellor
CHAMBER,I,575.046.2076

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and makes a question whether she shold incline to marrie again ,
CHAMBER,I,575.046.2077

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yf she did , she wold willingly do yt so , that she might have no
more children : wherof mee thinckes there is like to be no daunger ,
CHAMBER,I,575.046.2078

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have heard your mother did christen her , a fayre while before
any of you were borne . CHAMBER,I,575.046.2079

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The weather is so cold that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} aunswer your
cousen Lyttons letter , CHAMBER,I,575.046.2080

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neither is there any great need , CHAMBER,I,575.046.2081

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have alredy don , and will do what shall lie in me for his goode
, which is all he requires of me : CHAMBER,I,575.046.2082

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have sent you hertofore what I knew of his fathers meaning towards
him : CHAMBER,I,575.046.2083

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his letters $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sent away to Knebworth after to
morow CHAMBER,I,575.046.2084

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I pray you commend me to him , to Master Wake and Master Horne ,
CHAMBER,I,575.046.2085

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God have you in his keping . CHAMBER,I,575.046.2086

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this first of February 1614 . CHAMBER,I,575.046.2087

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_046:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,575.046.2088

<Q_CHM_A_1615_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_047> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,578>

{ED:222._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_16,_1615.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : Yesterday I receved your letter of the 29=th= of
January . CHAMBER,I,578.047.2089

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is no marvayle yf the posts kepe not theyre ordinarie dayes and
times , CHAMBER,I,578.047.2090

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we have had such weather that I thincke they had much ado to come
at all : CHAMBER,I,578.047.2091

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ever since Sonday was three weekes we have had continuall frost and
snow , wherof we have had such plenty as I never knew the like ,
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2092

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there hath not past one day since that time but yt hath snowed more
or lesse , CHAMBER,I,578.047.2093

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on Sonday last yt began at seven a clocke in the morning
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2094

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and never ceased till Monday after nine at night , so that yt lay very
deepe , CHAMBER,I,578.047.2095

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we feare we shall heare of much harme : CHAMBER,I,578.047.2096

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the greatest part of yt went away on Tewsday and yesterday with a
kindly thawe , CHAMBER,I,578.047.2097

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this night yt is frosen again and growne very cold .
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2098

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Beauchamp sister to the earle of Dorset and wife to the earle
of Hartfords grand-child is brought abed of a sonne ,
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2099

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I heare the like of the Lady Haddington daughter to the earle of
Sussex . CHAMBER,I,578.047.2100

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Edward Montagues younge Lady brought him a sonne likewise of late
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2101

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yt lasted not above two or three dayes . CHAMBER,I,578.047.2102

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Bartlett Master Coniers daughter lies in now of a sonne at
High-gate . CHAMBER,I,578.047.2103

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lady Cheeke Master Osborns sister of the Exchecquer wold needs be
let bloud the last weeke , for a litle heat or itching in her arme ,
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2104

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but by mishap the Quenes surgeon prickt her too deepe
CHAMBER,I,578.047.2105

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and cut an arterie , which fell to ranckle , and in a few dayes grew to
a gangrene wherof she died on Saterday , and was buried by night with
above thirty coaches and much torch-light attending her , which is of
late come much into fashion as yt shold seeme to avoyde trouble and
charge , CHAMBER,I,578.047.2106

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I rather thincke yt was brought up by papists which serve theyre
turne by yt many wayes . CHAMBER,I,578.047.2107

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She left no children CHAMBER,I,578.047.2108

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor ever had any , so that yt is thought her husband Sir Thomas will
not be long unprovided of a new <P_I,579> Lady , for that his land for
want of heyres males is to return to the crowne , and some Scot or
other hath begd the reversion . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2109

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Touching the Lady Edmonds body I know not whether yt be yet come over ,
CHAMBER,I,579.047.2110

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I am sure he wrote to her mother to know where she wold have yt
buried , yet geving his advise that he thought best at Caunterburie ,
as next to the place where yt was to arrive , wherunto the Lady Woode
assented , so that yt is don or to be don there without any solemnitie
. CHAMBER,I,579.047.2111

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir George Hayward the Lady Scotts sonne by old Sir Rowland , is fallen
mad . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2112

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord of Somerset hath the government and custodie of his land till
he recover . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2113

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His frends make all the meanes they can by phisicke to cure him ,
wherof there is the lesse hope for that he hath a sister <paren> maried
to Sir Richard Sandes </paren> now in the same case , and much about a
yeare since was well recovered , but within this moneth faln into a
relapse . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2114

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I never in all my time heard of so many distracted people of goode sort
, as I have don within these two or three yeares .
CHAMBER,I,579.047.2115

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your neighbor Bruckshaw hath lien this moneth or five weekes in the
Marshalsee , with sixe or seven of his companion-brewers , for that
they will not yeeld to have theyre drincke taken to serve the King
without monie , CHAMBER,I,579.047.2116

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Kinges brewer $can $not {TEXT:cannot} get a groat of sixteen
thousand pound that is owing to him for beere , so that he hath neither
monie nor credit to hold out any longer . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2117

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This terme they attempted by law to remove themselves and to trie
theyre cause , CHAMBER,I,579.047.2118

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they could not be relieved , for that there came a mandat from the
King wherby yt is become a matter of state , and out of the compasse of
law . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2119

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your brother Carleton was in town this weeke CHAMBER,I,579.047.2120

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I could prevayle nothing with him in the busines your sister
Undrill wrote of : CHAMBER,I,579.047.2121

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he pleades disabilitie , and indeed impossibilitie , unles he shold
wronge all the rest and leave them unprovided . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2122

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Abell Barnard remembers his service to you . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2123

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I did your errand , CHAMBER,I,579.047.2124

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he takes the excuse in goode part . CHAMBER,I,579.047.2125

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I met your cousen Will Lytton yesterday who speakes of sending his
brother Phillip ten pound , CHAMBER,I,579.047.2126

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wold have him send his halfe yeares allowance withall due at our
Lady Day , CHAMBER,I,579.047.2127

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he will not understand more then for a quarter ,
CHAMBER,I,579.047.2128

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I hope we shall agree upon the matter next time <P_I,580> we meet .
CHAMBER,I,580.047.2129

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This day he is gon to Knebworth . CHAMBER,I,580.047.2130

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You shold advise your cousen Phillip not to neglect him , but to write
him often , CHAMBER,I,580.047.2131

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he loves him well , CHAMBER,I,580.047.2132

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is kinde enough where he takes . CHAMBER,I,580.047.2133

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have nothing to write to your brother CHAMBER,I,580.047.2134

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Master Secretarie writes enough for this weeke .
CHAMBER,I,580.047.2135

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So prayeng you to remember me to Master Wake and Master Horne I commit
you to God . CHAMBER,I,580.047.2136

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 16=th= of February 1614 . CHAMBER,I,580.047.2137

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_047:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,580.047.2138

<Q_CHM_A_1615_T_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_048> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1554> <R_ALICE_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,593>

{ED:228._TO_ALICE_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_6,_1615.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mistris Carleton : The last weeke after I had written to you and sent
away , your brother Williams brought me your letter of the of March ,
with the large relations of the masking at Turin : all which I
understoode the next day more fully and particulerly by Master Wake who
came thence on Midlent Sonday and arrived here in lesse then twelve
dayes . CHAMBER,I,593.048.2139

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have met divers times since CHAMBER,I,593.048.2140

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had long conference of many matters , but litle or nothing of the
glasses , saving that he wold have made me beleve that surely they were
chaunged , which I could not <P_I,594> yeeld unto having so many
arguments and proofes to the contrarie , but passed yt over lightly and
made litle or no replie . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2141

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now touching the Lady Winwods looking glasses I sent you word the last
weeke or before that you might let them alone yf they were not provided
, CHAMBER,I,594.048.2142

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yf they be , let them come a Gods name CHAMBER,I,594.048.2143

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and welcome . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2144

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For the cornelian pendants I know not what to judge unles I saw them .
CHAMBER,I,594.048.2145

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf you thincke them worth the bringing there can be no great losse in
them any way . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2146

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir John Merricke went extraordinarie ambassador into Moscovie .
CHAMBER,I,594.048.2147

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The journy is so long that he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} returne till the
ships go for him this sommer , so that of necessitie he must be abrode
fifteen or sixteen moneths at least . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2148

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have heard nothing from Idlicot since I had the letter I sent you
which I aunswered a fortnight after the receyt , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2149

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent her a boxe of Treacle for a token : CHAMBER,I,594.048.2150

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wrote you longe since how I dealt with your brother and your nephew
Carleton about that busines , but with litle successe , so that I never
heard nor inquired more after yt . Wheras you write I shold kepe your
cousen Lyttons gold for you , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2151

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I understand not the meaning , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2152

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I must discharge the trust committed to me , <paren> whatsoever
reckenings are between you two </paren> which $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
be unles he acknowlege to his sister Smith that he hath receved such a
summe or the valew from me : which I pray you let him do so soone as
may be : CHAMBER,I,594.048.2153

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not younge Master Carie nor what difference there is betwen them
in yeares and education , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2154

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I am sure by that litle that I have seene there is great odds in
theyre writing : CHAMBER,I,594.048.2155

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I am still of the same opinion that your cousen will prove but a
fantasticall youth . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2156

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I labour still with his brother to get monie for him ,
CHAMBER,I,594.048.2157

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and two dayes since he promised to send me this day ,
CHAMBER,I,594.048.2158

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I heare not of yt hitherto . CHAMBER,I,594.048.2159

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I went last day to visit the Lady Cope CHAMBER,I,594.048.2160

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and found her busie in removing houshold , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2161

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she hath sold her house in the Strand to one Walters a lawier
<paren> the Princes atturny </paren> CHAMBER,I,594.048.2162

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath taken a smaller house in Drury-Lane of a yeare .
CHAMBER,I,594.048.2163

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but pitie her now a litle , that after the
losse of her husband , must leave her daughter and her children that
never parted yet since they came together , leave her fayre houses and
her port and betake herself to a poore cotage , CHAMBER,I,594.048.2164

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they that love to carie <P_I,595> a greater shew then theyre
substance will beare , must either pull down theyre sayles or sincke yf
fowle weather come : wherin I commend her course and goode mind that
can so soone settle herself to yt without grudging or repining .
CHAMBER,I,595.048.2165

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I see not what cause you have to mistrust that any letter of yours or
mine have miscaried , CHAMBER,I,595.048.2166

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for all that ever you made mention of I have receved ,
CHAMBER,I,595.048.2167

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I find not that any of mine are missing . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2168

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The best way is to note downe when you send and receve , which I do
usually . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2169

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now I thincke I have made aunswer to all your doubts and demaunds ,
saving only about your journy home-ward , which I thincke $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} be now long deferred , seeing your brother hath written
so earnestly about yt both-2 to the Lord Chamberlain and Master
Secretarie , and sent Master Wake to sollicit yt ; so that at his
comming backe from Turin to Venice , <paren> whether for ought I heare
he must return though never so loth </paren> I make no question but you
shall all come away presently . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2170

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Robert Drurie is dead CHAMBER,I,595.048.2171

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath left his land to his three sisters the Lady Burleigh , Lady
Wray and Diana unmaried . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2172

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Arthur Ingram with much ado is removed , and all his brave
furniture caried from the court . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2173

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There were many tricks and cunning passages used to kepe him in , or at
least to have won time , CHAMBER,I,595.048.2174

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the houshold was so mainly bent to have him out , and found so many
goode frends that there was no abiding . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2175

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Wake shall reside at Turin and be Agent in Master Mortons place
. CHAMBER,I,595.048.2176

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretarie effected yt for him within two or three dayes after
his comming : though indeed Master Morton gave way unto yt by his
earnest intreatie to come home , beeing very much crased in his health
and out of hart . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2177

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When I have sealed this letter I am redy to go to Ware Parke , where I
have ben expected this fortnight , CHAMBER,I,595.048.2178

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mean not to be much more absent from hence , CHAMBER,I,595.048.2179

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the terme by that time draws on : CHAMBER,I,595.048.2180

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf I meet with any thing there-LOC worth the writing you shall heare of
me . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2181

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hope at my return to send you some more certaintie of your journy .
CHAMBER,I,595.048.2182

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I assure you I have ben more earnest with Master Secretarie about that
point then for any thing since he came to the place ,
CHAMBER,I,595.048.2183

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but no importunitie will prevayle , untill the circumstances of the
busines do beare yt . CHAMBER,I,595.048.2184

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So with the remembrance <P_I,596> of my service to my Lady and
commendations to Master Horne I commit you to God .
CHAMBER,I,596.048.2185

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London this 6=th= of Aprill 1615 . CHAMBER,I,596.048.2186

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours most assuredly John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,596.048.2187

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:_:1554:61
RECIPIENT:ALICE_CARLETON:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:CHAMBER_048:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my assured goode frend Mistris Alice Carleton at the Lord
Ambassadors in Venice . CHAMBER,I,596.048.2188

<Q_CHM_A_1615_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_049> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,596>

{ED:229._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_May_20,_1615}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Upon notice of the present departure of a
messenger towards Turin I wrote yesterday to your sister upon very
short warning , CHAMBER,I,596.049.2189

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but understanding since that his dispatch was prolonged till this day I
wold not omit to advertise that litle we have here stirring , though I
know you shall have a more ample and perfect relation of all things by
Master Wakes letters , and shortly by himself , he beeing to come
towards you within five or sixe dayes at farthest .
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2190

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubt not but the post dispatcht to you about a fortnight since is
arrived before this time , by whose letters you may perceve we are so
inclined to peace ourselves that we wish all our frends to be of the
same minde , and to refuse no conditions , CHAMBER,I,596.049.2191

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and we are so credulous in this point , that let the other side do what
they will , so they say they have a goode meaning , we are redy to
beleve them , for facile credimus quod volumus : CHAMBER,I,596.049.2192

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and indeed as the case standes yt is the best way ,
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2193

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for vanae sine viribus irae CHAMBER,I,596.049.2194

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt were to no purpose to shew our teeth unles we could bite .
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2195

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You may easilie ymagin how well we are provided to furnish our frends
abrode , when we have not meanes to discharge ordinarie and necessarie
expenses at home , and that continuall clamor and importunitie $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} procure ambassadors entertainments that are so far
in arrierages , CHAMBER,I,596.049.2196

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet still there are promises that they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
supplied , and dayes appointed from weeke to weeke ,
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2197

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet no payments come , nor any apparance whence they shold come :
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2198

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but you must not be discouraged , CHAMBER,I,596.049.2199

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for delayes have an end CHAMBER,I,596.049.2200

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and when matters are at the worst they must amend .
CHAMBER,I,596.049.2201

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This terme drawes to <P_I,597> a conclusion CHAMBER,I,597.049.2202

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hitherto hath brought foorth litle noveltie ,
CHAMBER,I,597.049.2203

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only younge Owen that I wrote of was arraigned at the Kings Bench on
Wensday and condemned , for divers most vile and traiterous speaches
confessed and subscribed with his owne hande , as among others that yt
was as lawfull for any man to kill a King excommunicated , as for the
hangman to execute a condemned person . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2204

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He could say litle for himself or in maintenance of his despert
positions , but only that he meant yt not by the King , and that he
holdes him not excommunicated : CHAMBER,I,597.049.2205

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he is not yet executed CHAMBER,I,597.049.2206

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor I heare not when he shall ; CHAMBER,I,597.049.2207

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there was one Ogilvie a Jesuite lately executed at Glasgow in Scotland
for the same or such like opinions . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2208

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Monday our new Knights of the Garter Lord Fenton and Lord Knollis
ride to Windsor with great preparation to revie one upon another who
shall make the best shew , CHAMBER,I,597.049.2209

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though I am of opinion that the later will carrie yt by many
degrees , by reason of his alliance with the house of the Howards ,
Somerset , Salisberie , Dorset , with many other great families that
will bring him theyre frends and most part of the pencioners , yet most
are perswaded that the other will beare away the bell as having the
best part of the court , all the bed-chamber , all the Princes servants
and followers , with an hundred of the Guard that have new rich coates
made of purpose , besides Sir George Villiers the new favorite and
Master Secretarie whose presence had ben better forborn , in my
judgement , for many respects but that every man abounds in his own
sense . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2210

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The place of Lord Warden of the Cinq Ports hath since the death of the
earle of Northampton remained in the Lord Chamberlains hands as in
deposito . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2211

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Of late there hath ben speach to bestow yt on the Lord Zouch , or
rather as the voyce goes now on the Lord of Mongomerie ,
CHAMBER,I,597.049.2212

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Lord Chamberlain makes profession to hold yt still ,
CHAMBER,I,597.049.2213

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and whersoever the stop was , his patent was drawn above a moneth agon
: CHAMBER,I,597.049.2214

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though perhaps he make no great use nor account of yt , yet he wold
not have yt seen that yt can be wrested from him , in which regard he
makes more shew now the world thincks him in the waine then ever
heretofore . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2215

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His Lady is geven out to be with child , CHAMBER,I,597.049.2216

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but most men <paren> upon what ground I know not </paren> are of
opinion yt will not prove so . CHAMBER,I,597.049.2217

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Saterday last the King went again to Cambrige to see the play <font>
Ignoramus </font> which hath so netled the Lawiers that they are almost
out <P_I,598> of all patience , CHAMBER,I,598.049.2218

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lord Cheife Justice both-1 openly at the Kings Bench and divers
other places hath galled and glaunced at schollers with much bitternes
, CHAMBER,I,598.049.2219

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there be divers ynne of court men have made rimes and ballades
against them , which they have aunswered sharply enough :
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2220

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to say truth yt was a scandall taken rather then geven ,
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2221

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for what profession is there , wherin some particuler persons may not
be justly taxed without imputation to the whole :
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2222

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is an old sayeng conscius ipse sibi , CHAMBER,I,598.049.2223

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they are too partiall to thincke themselves so sacrosancti that
they may not be touched . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2224

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King had a Latin sermon on Sonday , and disputations on Monday
before his comming away . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2225

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dr. Nevile dean of Caunterburie and master of the Trinitie College died
three weekes since . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2226

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Deanrie is geven to one Fotherbie that was archdeacon there before
. CHAMBER,I,598.049.2227

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The mastership of Trinitie College is not yet bestowed ,
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2228

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but lies between Dr. Richardson the Divinitie reader , and Dr. Pask
that was of the same house . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2229

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of Salisberie is lately dead , and great meanes made that
Dr. Abbot of Oxford shold succeed him . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2230

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir William Lower died not long since in Wales . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2231

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His Lady after long absence was come to him litle more then a moneth
before his decease . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2232

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Humfry May hath newly buried his Lady that was Sir William Udalls
sister and died here in child-bed . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2233

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare Sir Henry Savile and his Lady and daughter are in towne
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2234

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have not seen them . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2235

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Younge Sidley is gon into Fraunce , where Christofer the Frenchman that
served Sir Thomas Bodley might have don him goode service ,
CHAMBER,I,598.049.2236

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he had parted with him before his going upon what occasion I know
not . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2237

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to Gods holy
protection . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2238

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this of May 1615 . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2239

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2240

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:61
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:42
LETTER:CHAMBER_049:E2:1615:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie at Turin . CHAMBER,I,598.049.2241

<Q_CHM_A_1616_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_050> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_I,624>

{ED:240._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_30,_1616.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : I had written to you fowre or five dayes since but
that I understoode that a packet was to be dispatcht this day or after
to morow to geve you notice of the resolution taken to part with the
cautionarie townes , wherin there is now no more dispute the matter
beeing fully concluded ; CHAMBER,I,624.050.2242

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
one of the greatest difficulties in the busines was to geve contentment
to the commaunders , though the Lord Lile hold himself well enough
apaide , to have a pension of a yeare during his life , and Sir Robert
Sidney his sonne to have a regiment and become a Colonell ,
CHAMBER,I,624.050.2243

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but Sir Horace Vere is not so well satisfied with his pension <P_I,625>
of a yeare , <paren> besides a yeare more after the decease of the Lady
Borough </paren> , and the reversion of the mastership of the ordinance
yf he outlive the Lord Carew : CHAMBER,I,625.050.2244

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and whether Sir Edward Conway will be pleased with his annuitie is
doubtfull ; CHAMBER,I,625.050.2245

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so hard a thing yt is to please all parties , wherby the old proverb is
verified , that there never was so plentifull a feast but some went
away hungrie . CHAMBER,I,625.050.2246

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
What the successe of this redeliverie $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} God knowes
, CHAMBER,I,625.050.2247

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but once yt begins to be better digested alredy then was at first
apprehended , the rather for that the whole summe is to be employed by
the consent of all the counsaile , in providing for matters most
necessarie and discharging the most pressing and crieng debts .
CHAMBER,I,625.050.2248

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King went away the next day after St. Georges feast towards
Newmarket and Thetford , the earle of Rutland and Sir George Villers
being that morning elected into the order of the Garter , which seemed
at first a strange choise in regard that the wife of the former is an
open and knowne recusant , and he is saide to have many daungerous
people about him ; and that the later is so lately come into the light
of the world : CHAMBER,I,625.050.2249

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall yt was doubted that he had not sufficient likelihoode to
maintain the dignitie of the place according to expresse articles of
the order : CHAMBER,I,625.050.2250

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but to take away that scruple , the King hath bestowed on him the Lord
Grayes landes , CHAMBER,I,625.050.2251

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and meanes <paren> they say </paren> to mend his graunt with much more
not far distant in the present possession of the earle of Somerset , yf
he do cadere causa , and sincke in the busines now in hand .
CHAMBER,I,625.050.2252

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Chauncellor and the rest of the commissioners in those causes
go often to the Towre , CHAMBER,I,625.050.2253

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yesterday the Lord Cooke went with them , which was much noted ,
for that he hath ben neglected of late , and so far eclipsed that yt
was generally bruited that he was put out of the commission .
CHAMBER,I,625.050.2254

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Carre <paren> neere about the Prince </paren> and Gibbe of
the bed-chamber were examined the last week about conveying away and
burning of papers , and letters , CHAMBER,I,625.050.2255

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and were restrained to Sir James Fullerton , <paren> who is lately
maried to the Lady Kinlos </paren> CHAMBER,I,625.050.2256

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I heare Sir Robert Car hath found meanes to be inlarged , <P_I,626>
whatsoever becomes of Gibbe . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2257

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The arraignment is now certainly set downe to hold the Wensday and
Thursday after the terme , CHAMBER,I,626.050.2258

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and letters are sent out to summon the Lordes . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2259

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Rosse is appointed to go extraordinarie ambassador into Spaine
, which honor he and his new father in law take so to heart , that they
make profession to performe yt very honorablie and to spare no expence
, CHAMBER,I,626.050.2260

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though they shold stretch themselves very far yet yt is thought
they will come much short of the Lord Haye <paren> who provides for
Fraunce </paren> yf all thinges prove aunswerable to the preparation .
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2261

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There hath ben somwhat ado of late twixt the younge Lord and his mother
<paren> the Lady Burgley , </paren> about a scandall raised upon our
goode frend , who calling yt to account from posting yt over one upon
another , they are come at last solemnly and flatly to forsweare yt ,
which is a hard case at least for one of them , CHAMBER,I,626.050.2262

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they have both so laboured to justifie themselves to him , and made
such meanes and mediation of frends to satisfie him , that he is
content to forget yt and they confesse he deales noblie with them in
prosecuting yt no farther . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2263

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare that Sir Edward Hobby is about to buy Master Deckhams reversion
of the chauncellorship of the Duchie . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2264

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I confesse I shold thincke yt straunge to see him sit in the place ,
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2265

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I have lived long enough and seene too much to thincke any
thing straunge . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2266

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Michaell Stanhops Lady died on Sonday , which is no yll turne for
her after her late disgrace of having a daughter <paren> as is saide
</paren> by Sir Eustace Hart , CHAMBER,I,626.050.2267

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the world talkes somwhat suspitiously of her end .
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2268

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Taverner was condemned on Thursday last at the Kinges Bench for killing
a gentleman one Bird in the feild above fowre or five yeares since ,
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2269

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though there hath ben great meanes made for his life , yet yt is
thought he shall die for yt . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2270

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Roxboroughs daughter was christned at Greenwich on Sonday ,
the Quene and Lady of Bedford beeing Godmothers .
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2271

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Her sonne died not long before or after your going hence .
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2272

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is much speach of the Kings going hence into Scotland the next
yeare . CHAMBER,I,626.050.2273

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For my part I shall beleve yt when I see yt , CHAMBER,I,626.050.2274

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for many times multa cadunt inter calicem et ct .
CHAMBER,I,626.050.2275

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have receved a bond of <P_I,627> of Master Sherbourn sealed and
delivered by himself and his father in law Auditor Stanly for your use
. CHAMBER,I,627.050.2276

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had yt perused and perfected by a scrivener of greatest practise in
this towne , and a frend or two more so that I make no doubt but yt is
as yt shold be : CHAMBER,I,627.050.2277

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thereupon I delivered him the letter of atturny you left with me
CHAMBER,I,627.050.2278

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he shall have the chaines when he calles for them , after I have
seen what $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} geven for them to the uttermost :
CHAMBER,I,627.050.2279

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he tells me that with all the diligence he can use there $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} twelve pence in an ounce lost of that reconing he made to
you . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2280

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Fanshawe hath geven me great charge to return thanckes to you
and your goode Lady for the kind remembrance you have of her and the
frendly feeling of her great loose . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2281

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all due remembrance to my Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2282

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this last of Aprill 1616 . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2283

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2284

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dieston Master Secretaries man is not yet dispatcht ,
CHAMBER,I,627.050.2285

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor any certaintie when he shall , CHAMBER,I,627.050.2286

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I perceve they tary for the return of Burlamacchi ; to understand
how the payments are setled , CHAMBER,I,627.050.2287

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then the Lord Lile and Sir Horace Vere must go over to see the
townes rendered . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2288

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Edward Hobby hath sent over his base sonne Peregrine to be brought
up at Leyden , CHAMBER,I,627.050.2289

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and commits him to the care of Sir Noel Caron to provide that he be
every way accommodated . CHAMBER,I,627.050.2290

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_050:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,I,627.050.2291

<Q_CHM_A_1616_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_051> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,31>

{ED:251._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_9,_1616.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Your brother Carleton was with me on Sonday last
when I receved your letter of the 24 of October :
CHAMBER,II,31.051.2292

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he hath ben here now a whole weeke CHAMBER,II,31.051.2293

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thincks every day ten till he may get out of towne :
CHAMBER,II,31.051.2294

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the cause of his stay is to attend for his sonne who like a goode
husband got himself out of the way and playes least in sight whiles our
gallants flaunt yt out in theyre greatest braverie at the Princes
creation : which was performed on Monday at White-hall with all
solemnitie within doores , CHAMBER,II,31.051.2295

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the sharpnes of the weather and the Princes crasines did not permit
any publike shew . CHAMBER,II,31.051.2296

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not the list of the 24 Knights of the Bath that were made at
this time , CHAMBER,II,31.051.2297

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt may suffice that they were all of noble houses ,
CHAMBER,II,31.051.2298

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lords Matravers , Percie , and Wriothesly were the ringleaders
, CHAMBER,II,31.051.2299

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and younge Seymor that maried Arbella did cladere amen
CHAMBER,II,31.051.2300

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was the last . CHAMBER,II,31.051.2301

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tom Carew and Phill Lytton as I heare were squires of high degree for
cost and braverie , the one to the Lord Beauchamp , the other to his
cousen <P_II,32> Rowland St. John ; CHAMBER,II,32.051.2302

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is litle els to be saide touching this troope but that yt was
generally observed that the least became themselves best .
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2303

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt was meant that the Prince with this band of knights shold on
Thursday have gon to supper through London to the Lord Mayors
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2304

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but how yt was mistaken or shifted , they went not ,
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2305

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet the matter will not so be put of , CHAMBER,II,32.051.2306

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but is apointed for this night . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2307

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Arundell was made earl marshall for the festivall ,
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2308

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his frends hope he may continue on , CHAMBER,II,32.051.2309

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but all are not of that opinion . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2310

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King came to towne on Allhalloweve CHAMBER,II,32.051.2311

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and stoode on the gallerie staires at Whithall to see the Prince come
along from Richmond attended by the Lord Mayor and all the companies of
London in theyre barges in very goode order CHAMBER,II,32.051.2312

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and made a goodly shew . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2313

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene wold not be present at the creation , lest she shold renew
her griefe by the memorie of the last Prince who runs still so much in
some mens mind , that on Tewsday I heard the bishop of Ely preaching at
court upon the third verse of the 37=th= of Esay <paren> venerunt filii
ad partum et non erant vires parienti </paren> , pray solemnly for
Prince Henry without recalling himself . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2314

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King was minded to be gon on Wensday CHAMBER,II,32.051.2315

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the multiplicitie of busines prolonges his stay till Monday ,
specially the matter of clothing and of the new companie of marchants
which the King will have go forward as yt were invita Minerva ,
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2316

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath sent for and to the old companie of marchant adventurers that
volens nolens yt must undertake this worke of dieng and dressing and
must buy up the clothes and enter into the new societie , which course
need not be taken , yf the thing were faisible , or that any gaine were
to be had by yt , CHAMBER,II,32.051.2317

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but as they say clothing decayes apace CHAMBER,II,32.051.2318

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath alredy receved a great blow by this project ,
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2319

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so I pray God that this trieng conclusions do not ruine or bring downe
our marchants . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2320

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Cooke hangs still in suspence , CHAMBER,II,32.051.2321

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his best frends feare he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} totally eclipsed ,
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2322

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet the Quene is saide to stand firme for him , and to have ben very
earnest in his behalfe , as likewise the Prince :
CHAMBER,II,32.051.2323

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall I heare his aunswers to all objections allowed of by them
that have seen them with indifferencie . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2324

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But somwhat manet alta mente repostum that $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
easilie be removed . CHAMBER,II,32.051.2325

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet there was a flieng tale the other day , that the Lord Villers
brother <P_II,33> about the Prince shold marrie his daughter with land
from him , and land from his Lady , together with the Lord Ropers
office , CHAMBER,II,33.051.2326

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so there shold be a pacification . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2327

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the mean time he is as yt were in an ague , having a goode day and a
bad by fitts . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2328

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Thursday the Lord Chauncellor was created Vicount Brackly , the Lord
Knollis Vicount Wallingford and Sir Phillip Stanhop Lord Stanhop of
Shelford in the gallerie at Whitehall in the presence of King , Quene
and Prince . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2329

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubted Master Secretaries baron should scant have ben rancked in so
goode companie CHAMBER,II,33.051.2330

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I could have wisht he had met with a more worthy subject , and
where he might better have bestowed his favor . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2331

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Nanton was nominated the last weeke to have gon upon a
message to the archduke , to demaund justice against him that made that
scandalous libell , called Corona Regia , which they find by goode
proofe to be Puteanus the reader at Lovain ; CHAMBER,II,33.051.2332

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but Sir Robert fearing a tricke and that he might be lodged there ,
hath found such meanes that he is dispensed withall , and some other
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} thought upon . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2333

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is like you may have the old Lady Harrington come by you shortly in
her way toward Heidelberg , whether she is going to reside about the
Lady Elizabeth who hath written to the King for her ,
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2334

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but whether of her owne motion or the others procurement is the
question she beeing thought an ambitious woman , and there beeing doubt
that she lookes for a day . CHAMBER,II,33.051.2335

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Salisberies younge sonne died this day fortnight .
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2336

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King was his godfather in person , CHAMBER,II,33.051.2337

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
held him at the fount all the while he was christning ,
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2338

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
gave him the reversion of all his fathers places and offices ,
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2339

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet all these favors could not prolong life .
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2340

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had almost forgot that our ynnes of court gentlemen caried themselves
but indifferently at the barriers the night of the Princes creation ,
but specially in theyre complements wherin they were not so gracefull
as was to be wished and expected , CHAMBER,II,33.051.2341

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in requitall they played the men at the banquet .
CHAMBER,II,33.051.2342

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with <P_II,34> all goode wishes to you and yours I commend you to
the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,34.051.2343

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 9=th= of November 1616 . CHAMBER,II,34.051.2344

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,34.051.2345

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:62
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:43
LETTER:CHAMBER_051:E2:1616:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,34.051.2346

<Q_CHM_A_1617_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_052> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,65>

{ED:262._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_March_29,_1617.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Since my last unto you I have receved yours of the
of this present , CHAMBER,II,65.052.2347

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the very same day I wrote the late Lord Chauncellor left this world
, beeing visited in articulo mortis <paren> or not full halfe an howre
before </paren> by the new Lord Keper with a message from his Majestie
that he meant presently to bestow on him the title of the earle of
Bridgewater , to make him President of the counsaile , and geve him a
pension of a yeare during his life : CHAMBER,II,65.052.2348

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he was so far past that no wordes or worldly comforts could worke
with him , CHAMBER,II,65.052.2349

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but only thancking his Majestie for his gracious favor , saide these
thinges were all to him but vanities . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2350

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But his sonne though he lay then <paren> and so doth still </paren> as
yt were bound hand and foote with the gowte , yet did not neglect this
fayre offer of the earledom , CHAMBER,II,65.052.2351

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but hath sollicited yt ever since , with hopefull successe at first the
King having geven order for the warrant , CHAMBER,II,65.052.2352

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet yt stickes now I know not where , unles yt be that he must geve
downe more milke , though yf all be true that is saide was a fayre
soope before . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2353

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His father left a great state both-1 in wealth and land ;
CHAMBER,II,65.052.2354

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
a yeare is the least that is talked of , CHAMBER,II,65.052.2355

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and some speake of much more . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2356

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet withall he left but an indifferent name beeing accounted too sowre
, severe and implacable , a great ennemie to parlements and the common
law , only to maintain his owne greatnes , and the exorbitant
jurisdiction of his court of chauncerie . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2357

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He gave order in his will to have no solemne funerall , no monument ,
but to be buried in oblivion , alleging the precedents of Seneca ,
Warrham archbishop of Caunterburie and chauncellor , and Budaeus the
learned Frenchman , who all tooke the like course , so that yesterday
he was caried downe very privatly into Cheshire to be laide by his
first wife and his sonne . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2358

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One thing is much noted in his will that he gave nothing to the poore
or to any charitable use , nor to any of his servants , nor very litle
to his grandchildren but left all to his sonne . CHAMBER,II,65.052.2359

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Edward <P_II,66> Nowell is newly made a baron by patent , which
beeing a more easie way then by creation or investiture , yt is doubted
that in time we shall have more then enough . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2360

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He hath sold his manner of Dalby in Lecestershire , <paren> beeing his
patrimonie and dwelling , </paren> to the earle of Buckingham for
CHAMBER,II,66.052.2361

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and lies in wait to buy Burly of the Lady of Bedford <paren> wheron he
hath lent monie alredy </paren> and so plant himself altogether in
Rutlandshire . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2362

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Hayes was the last weeke sworn of the counsaile at Roiston as
I take yt , CHAMBER,II,66.052.2363

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is expected that the earle of Mongomerie shall not tarrie long
after him . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2364

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King is now at Lincoln whether Master Vicechamberlain went on
Thursday to take his leave for Spaine CHAMBER,II,66.052.2365

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is generally bruited that he $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} made a
vicount . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2366

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Rosse is come home and gon to the King .
CHAMBER,II,66.052.2367

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The greatest matter I heare of his message is that the King of Spaine
gave him a jewell of , CHAMBER,II,66.052.2368

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet he will not gain by the bargain . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2369

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The busines with Spaine goes on <paren> they say </paren> the Kinge ,
Quene and Prince beeing very well affected to yt , and commissioners
apointed to consider of yt , the Lord Keper , Lord Treasurer , Lord
Privie-seale , Duke of Lennox , bishop of Ely , vicechamberlain ,
chauncellor of the exchecquer and Sir Thomas Lake .
CHAMBER,II,66.052.2370

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The archbishop of Caunterburie , Master Controller and Sir Rafe Winwod
are excepted and left out as openly opposite . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2371

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At the parting from the King at Huntington Secretarie Winwod was
apointed to be at Edinburg the of July . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2372

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He hath lately gotten the keping of Ditton parke to him and his heyres
males , and for his charges in reparations and alterations since his
comming to yt . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2373

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Virginian woman <paren> whose picture I sent you </paren> died this
last weeke at Gravesend as she was returning homeward .
CHAMBER,II,66.052.2374

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our prentises that committed the disorders on Shrovetewsday have ben
arraigned and acquitted for theyre lives , but found guilty of a fowle
riot , and some of them fined in summes they can never pay , and to
imprisonment for a yeare , two or three according to the greatnes of
theyre offence . CHAMBER,II,66.052.2375

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir <P_II,67> Walter Raleigh tooke his leave yesternight of Master
Secretarie CHAMBER,II,67.052.2376

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and goes this morning toward Dover where he hopes to find his ship ,
though his followers are yet in the river and make no great haste after
him . CHAMBER,II,67.052.2377

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He makes away with all the speed he can for feare of a countermaund ,
by reason of some message brought by the Lord Rosse , and of Master
Vicechamberlains going to court now his frends be away ,
CHAMBER,II,67.052.2378

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is observed that the Prince is no frend to the journy , but
hindered the Quene from going to see his ship as she had apointed on
Wensday last . CHAMBER,II,67.052.2379

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God knowes there needs no such great working to overthrow the viage .
CHAMBER,II,67.052.2380

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For ought I can understand , I feare he doth but go <paren> as children
are wont to tell theyre tales </paren> to seeke his fortune .
CHAMBER,II,67.052.2381

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had almost forgotten that on Monday the 24=th= of this moneth beeing
the Kings day , the archbishop of Caunterburie , the Lord Keper , Lord
Privie-seale , the earle of Arundell , the earle of Southampton , the
Lord Hayes , the controller , Secretarie Winwod , the Master of the
Rolles with divers other great men were at Paules Crosse and heard Dr.
Donne who made there a daintie sermon , upon the eleventh verse of the
22=th= of Proverbes ; and was excedingly well liked generally , the
rather for that he did Quene Elizabeth great right , and held himself
close to the text without flattering the time too much .
CHAMBER,II,67.052.2382

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with all goode wishes to you and my Lady I commend you to the
protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,67.052.2383

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 29=th= of March 1617 . CHAMBER,II,67.052.2384

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,67.052.2385

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_052:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,67.052.2386

<Q_CHM_A_1617_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_053> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,99>

{ED:273._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_October_11,_1617.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Though yt be long yet at last I am returned to my
old garrison , CHAMBER,II,99.053.2387

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and find here litle alteration , saving the ordinarie revolution and
course of this world , some comming and some going :
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2388

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
our overthwart neighbor Sir Tho: Hayes hath left a fine rich widow ,
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2389

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the multitude of children $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} a great maime to
her mariage . CHAMBER,II,99.053.2390

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Gerrard President of Wales hath enjoyed that place but a litle
, nor his fayre younge Lady ; CHAMBER,II,99.053.2391

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lord Willoughby of Parham hath likewise left the world , and Sir
William Wraye and your old frend Sir Antonie Mildmay , of whose will I
heare litle or nothing yet , but only that Ned Wimarke for all the
auncient acquaintance between them hath not so much as a rush-ring for
a remembrance . CHAMBER,II,99.053.2392

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Daniell Dun died no rich man for all he had three goode offices .
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2393

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir H. Martin the Kings advocate hath his place of judge of the
Admiraltie : CHAMBER,II,99.053.2394

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir ... Newman a doctor of law is Dean of the Arches ,
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2395

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his mastership of requests in ordinarie , is yet in suspence ,
twixt Sir Christofer Perkins , Sir Lionell Cranfeild and Sidney
Montague . CHAMBER,II,99.053.2396

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Mongomerie hath lost his only sonne CHAMBER,II,99.053.2397

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but his Lady beeing with child and neere her time puts him in hope of a
new heyre . CHAMBER,II,99.053.2398

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Sidley hath lost his mother the Lady of Abergevennie ,
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2399

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but no doubt you have heard of that before , as perhaps of all or most
part of the rest , CHAMBER,II,99.053.2400

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I love to leave nothing that comes to my knowlege or remembrance .
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2401

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Sidneyes Lady hath brought him a daughter .
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2402

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The mariage twixt her sister and the Lord Hayes is put of till the
Kings return at Hallowtide . CHAMBER,II,99.053.2403

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For so hot love they have had a great deale of patience ,
CHAMBER,II,99.053.2404

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the world suspects yt begins to coole CHAMBER,II,99.053.2405

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yf matters go not forward , we <P_II,100> might chaunce heare no
further of yt . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2406

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Patrike Murreys Lady <paren> that was Sir Fra: Veres widow </paren>
hath brought him a sonne , at whose christning the King , the earle of
Buckingham and the Lady of Salisberie were gossips , wherin lies a
misterie yf the tinder will take . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2407

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Ned Sherbourn had a sonne christned on Thursday by the Lord Keper and
Sir Fulke Grivell , CHAMBER,II,100.053.2408

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I doubt yt was but by Deputies . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2409

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare he is neere his Lord in goode place and grace , and was much
employed by him in the busines of reconciliation twixt him and the Lady
Compton , wherin he caried himself very dexterously , and got the start
of all his collegues in diligent waiting and beeing ever at hand .
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2410

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt were to no purpose to write of the Kings return out of Scotland ,
and what infinite numbers of people went out of this towne to meet him
when he came hither and how well they were washt with a sound shower of
raine for theyre labour . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2411

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our goode frend went no further then Woodstocke to meet him , the rest
of the body of the counsaile to Windsor . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2412

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} relate all the passages of the Lady Hattons
busines because I was absent , CHAMBER,II,100.053.2413

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but sure she hath don herself a great deale of wronge , in kicking
against the pricke , and by indirect courses to hinder that which lay
not in her power . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2414

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Her daughter was maried to Sir John Villers at Hampton Court on
Michaelmas day . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2415

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King himself gave the bride , CHAMBER,II,100.053.2416

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they were thrise publikely asked in the church :
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2417

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the pretended contract with the earle of Oxford proved nothing , and
since the mariage letters are come wherby he disadvowes yt ,
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2418

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet to say my conscience me thincks there needed no such haste , but
that they might have taried for his aunswer , specially the bridegroome
beeing in no such perfect state of health but that wedlocke was rather
like to hurt then heale him . CHAMBER,II,100.053.2419

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But her mothers wilfulnes and animositie , together with the daunger of
her continuall plottings made the busines go on the faster .
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2420

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She lies still at Sir William Cravens , crasie in body and sicke in
minde ; CHAMBER,II,100.053.2421

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is a commission to the Lord Keper , the Lord Archbishop ,
Secretarie Winwod and I know not who els to examine her , of
conspiracie , disobedience and many other misdemeanures , and to
proceed against her according as they shall finde cause
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2422

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but her sicknes stands her in some stead for the time ,
CHAMBER,II,100.053.2423

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yf she come again to herself , yt may be in that space there will
grow <P_II,101> grace : CHAMBER,II,101.053.2424

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but sure she is in a wrong way now , and so animated towards her
husband , that yt is verely thought she wold not care to ruine herself
to overthrow him . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2425

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is admitted again to the counsaile table , CHAMBER,II,101.053.2426

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but his frends $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet fore-see any further
advancement . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2427

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She sent lately to the Marquis Hamilton CHAMBER,II,101.053.2428

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and communicated with him all her grevances , recommending herself and
her distressed estate to his protection . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2429

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Indeed he is become very gracious among our great Ladies , wherby a man
may see how far report may prevaile . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2430

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is of the counsaile , CHAMBER,II,101.053.2431

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the bishop of Winchester was likewise sworne since the Kings
comming backe , so that the clergie was not so stronge at the counsaile
table these many yeares . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2432

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Rich is saide to be in great perplexitie , or rather crased in
braine , to see himself overeacht by his new wife , who hath so
conveyed her estate that he is litle or nothing the better by her , and
yf she outlive him like to carrie away a great part of his .
CHAMBER,II,101.053.2433

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Her sister the Lady Bowes hath dealt cleane contrarie beeing lately
maried to the Lord Darcy of the north , and bringing a great estate
whole and entire , and refusing any joynter or other advantage , saying
yt is sufficient for her to have the honor without any hinderance to
the house . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2434

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French ambassador that went lately hence is returned with his wife
and familie , CHAMBER,II,101.053.2435

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and meanes to sticke to us . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2436

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Rosse is sent for by order of the counsaile
CHAMBER,II,101.053.2437

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the question is where he may be found , CHAMBER,II,101.053.2438

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he playes least in sight CHAMBER,II,101.053.2439

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and stayes not long in a place . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2440

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last newes of him was that he was seen at Lions :
CHAMBER,II,101.053.2441

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he is farther indebted then I thought his credit could stretch .
CHAMBER,II,101.053.2442

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Jesuit that came from Milan , is sent away without seeing the King
who gave order that the Lord Archbishop and Master Secretarie Winwod
shold heare what he could say . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2443

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They dealt with him by all manner of goode meanes
CHAMBER,II,101.053.2444

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and drew from him as he protested the uttermost of his knowlege , which
was not all worth the whistling , beeing certain strange chimeraes and
far fetcht ymaginations of plotts and daungers not worth the knowing
much lesse the relating . Wherupon yt was thought goode to dispatch him
away , the rather for that he grew scandalously debacht with boyes and
otherwise . CHAMBER,II,101.053.2445

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He had a hundred pound in gold delivered him , which the <P_II,102>
searchers at sea side tooke from him , a thing that shold not have ben
don , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2446

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but now there is no remedy , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2447

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither do they know how or whether to send yt after him .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2448

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And here is the end of that play , to the small honor of the author .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2449

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here be many new knights made and among the rest Sir George Colvert ,
Sir Clement Edmonds , and Albertus Morton , the cheife reason wherof
was that Secretary Lakes sonne beeing extraordinarie had got the start
of his fellowes . CHAMBER,II,102.053.2450

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady of Roxboro is gon from court , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2451

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lady Gray of Ruthen , though with much opposition succeeds her
in her place . CHAMBER,II,102.053.2452

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our goode frend plaide his prises there to , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2453

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and overcame all difficulties , which I wold not wish him to adventure
too often , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2454

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the pitcher goes so long to the water that at last yt comes broken
home . CHAMBER,II,102.053.2455

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But he sayes he will meddle no more in such matters .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2456

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In truth he could never leave in a better time ,
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2457

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he hath taken downe all that stoode in his way , and made the
highest strike sayle and vaile bonnet , which I impute not altogether
to his fortune , but to courage and foresight what he undertooke .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2458

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Quene lately asked the Lord Keper what occasion the Secretarie had
geven him to oppose himself so violently against him , who aunswered
prettely , Madame I can say no more but he is prowde and I am prowde .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2459

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But the King according to his pacificall disposition hath made all
frends , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2460

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and in the admonition he gave some of them did him this honor to say
you may perhaps thincke that he hath informed these and these things
against you , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2461

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I assure you in the word of a prince , that neither-2 by word nor
writing did he ever suggest ought to any perticuler mans prejudice ,
either to me , or to Buckingham , as he is here redy to protest before
you . CHAMBER,II,102.053.2462

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is gon this morning to Roiston to the King CHAMBER,II,102.053.2463

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and comes backe on Tewsday : CHAMBER,II,102.053.2464

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yesterday he came home from the Starchamber after he had sit there
halfe an howre very sicke in his stomacke , CHAMBER,II,102.053.2465

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but with rest and other helpes he recovered CHAMBER,II,102.053.2466

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and went backe after dinner because the counsaile sat there , the table
and diet beeing newly erected as yt was wont to be .
CHAMBER,II,102.053.2467

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I receved your letter sent by your nephew Williams <P_II,103>
CHAMBER,II,103.053.2468

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and will have care of whatsoever you writ then or before as much as
lies in me . CHAMBER,II,103.053.2469

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have ben but two whole dayes in towne , wherof yesterday I spent in a
manner wholy at St Barthemewes so that I have seen few or none of our
old frends nor have ben but once in Powles . CHAMBER,II,103.053.2470

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with my best wishes to you and my goode Lady I commend you to the
protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,103.053.2471

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 11=th= of October 1617 . CHAMBER,II,103.053.2472

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,103.053.2473

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:63
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:44
LETTER:CHAMBER_053:E2:1617:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the United States of the Low-countries : at the Hagh
. CHAMBER,II,103.053.2474

<Q_CHM_A_1618_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_054> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,133>

{ED:284._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_January_31,_1618.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : I have neither heard from you nor written since I
sent by Jansen the post the 17=th= of this present .
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2475

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The terme is now a weeke old CHAMBER,II,133.054.2476

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet here is small apparance . CHAMBER,II,133.054.2477

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Few of our frends are yet come to towne but only your brother Williams
. CHAMBER,II,133.054.2478

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Kinge is yet at New-market , CHAMBER,II,133.054.2479

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but meanes to be here at Shrovetide yf his legge or his arme will geve
him leave of both which he hath complained now this fortnight
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2480

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and kepes altogether within doores . CHAMBER,II,133.054.2481

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Dekham died on Thursday of a lethargie or drowsie disease ,
leaving one sonne and two daughters and thirteen or fowerteen hundred
pound land , with 7 or $=li= {TEXT:8000=li=} debt .
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2482

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is great posting and pursuit for his place , to which a world of
competitors pretend ; CHAMBER,II,133.054.2483

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for now the market is open every man thinckes his pennie goode silver :
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2484

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
though Sir Thomas Edmonds , Sir Edward Cooke , both the secretaries and
some others hope to have yt gratis , yet Sir Thomas Savage , Sir
Richard Weston , Sir Lionell Cranfeld and I know not how many more go
to yt by the plaine way of purchase , wherin they say the Lord Hollis
makes the fayrest offer yf he may have a counsaillorship with yt :
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2485

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is geven out that the King hath no manner of liking to him in
any sort neither sod nor rosted . CHAMBER,II,133.054.2486

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Candish hath lost his younger sonne <paren> whom he had by
this Lady </paren> a very hopefull and towardly younge gentleman of
some dousen yeares old and alredy knighted : CHAMBER,II,133.054.2487

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so is like to prove a goode wind-fall in Sir Williams way
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2488

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the father was purposed to leave him land besides goods , which had
bene a large portion for a younger brother . CHAMBER,II,133.054.2489

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Chauncellor on Tewsday went by warrant to the Lord Wotton to
receve his staffe which he sent away immediatly to the King
CHAMBER,II,133.054.2490

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Thursday Master Controller and Sir Henry Carie followed yt ,
with expectation or <P_II,134> rather assurance to enterchaunge to
morow or next day . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2491

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Once younge Sir Harry Mildmay is alredy in possession and sworne master
of the jewell-house . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2492

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Edmonds is in consort with the Duke to farme the green-waxe
<paren> as they call yt </paren> or the seale of the exchecquer , which
is thought will prove a matter of great benefit to them ; as likewise
the Lord Chauncellor farmes the great seale or subpoenas which the
world judges $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be so litle worth as cleere profit
yearly . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2493

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the mean time divers other offices fare the worse ,
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2494

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and are empayred by these parings , besides the generalitie that
complains entre-dents , interim ego ringor . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2495

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Rosses busines with the Lady of Excester hath ben heard twise
or thrise , and the whole processe sealed up and sent to the King .
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2496

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare the Lord of Excester hath sent to crave leave to prosecute the
contrivers of this scandall against his wife in the Starchamber .
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2497

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He was nothing contented with the cariage of the cause ,
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2498

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but did moderatly complaine of hard measure , wherupon the Lord
Chauncellor wrote to him to set downe his greevances , which he
refusing , <paren> and yf the hard weather had permitted pretending to
go to the King </paren> I heare that he went to him himself to geve him
all satisfaction . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2499

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last weeke our Recorder Ben was put out of commons in the Temple
and debarred of pleading at any barre by the Judges for falling fowle
of the Lord Cheife Justice at the sessions and telling him he had no
more to do there then an ordinarie justice , CHAMBER,II,134.054.2500

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but by late letters from New-market he is restored and all things shut
up sub silentio . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2501

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our East Indian fleet is setting out and some of them gon downe to
Gravesend . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2502

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They go stronger and more then ever heretofore , beeing nine goode
ships and of great burden , three or fowre of them new built :
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2503

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Dale shold go Generall , CHAMBER,II,134.054.2504

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yf he come not backe from you the sooner , he is like to be left
behind , and so lose his employment . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2505

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King hath geven a patent to one Sir James Cunningham a Scottish
knight to raise an East Indian companie there , whereof he and his
heyres are to be Governors , and none to be admitted but by his and
theyre approbation . CHAMBER,II,134.054.2506

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They have libertie to trade into the East and West Indies , Turkie ,
Muscovie Greenland or to any other place alredy discovered or to be
discovered : CHAMBER,II,134.054.2507

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they may furnish themselves of shipping , mariners , vitayle or
anything els they need in any port of England , where all officers are
to assist them , as likewise they may vent theyre commodities here ,
CHAMBER,II,134.054.2508

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and that which in the reading <P_II,135> yt seemed to me most strange
that not only Scots , but English or any other stranger may be admitted
into this societie , and yet yt must be called and accounted the
Scottish Companie , with a number of other large privileges , which do
directly infringe former graunts , and crosse the whole course of our
trafficke . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2509

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But the best is they do only yet make a noise and shew , and seeke all
over for partners and adventurers which come slowly in , and as I heare
wold faine compound and sell theyre rights and interests to the East
Indian Companie . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2510

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Delaware is returning to Virginia CHAMBER,II,135.054.2511

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and caries with him seven or eight-score men . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2512

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Gates makes account to follow him some time this next summer
. CHAMBER,II,135.054.2513

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Venetian ambassador is busie in hiring ships here to serve the
Signorie CHAMBER,II,135.054.2514

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath agreed with Sir Henry Payton to cary thether souldiers ,
wherat I heare the Spanish ambassador stormes extreemly ,
CHAMBER,II,135.054.2515

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though he be very crasie yet hath not the patience to tary the
Kings comming , CHAMBER,II,135.054.2516

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but is going to Newmarket , to hinder all he can , wherin I feare he
shall have the better audience , for that yt is secretly whispered ,
that our busines in Spaine is in good forwardnes , beeing of late
bruited here that yt was utterly broken of . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2517

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with my best wishes to my goode Lady I commend you to the protection
of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2518

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this last of January 1617 . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2519

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,135.054.2520

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_054:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,135.054.2521

<Q_CHM_A_1618_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_055> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,158>

{ED:295._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_29,_1618.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : I was in very goode hope that we might have had
you here this weeke yf the letter with your licence had found but
<P_II,159> an ordinarie passage , CHAMBER,II,159.055.2522

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for my Lady counts the dayes and howres since her mans departure ,
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2523

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and according to her account he might be with you in goode time ;
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2524

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but as yt falles out I am not so sory for your stay , as glad that you
were not in the tempest we had here on Sonday night at northwest , one
of the sorest that I have heard , which puts me in remembrance and
practise of that we pray for in the procession for all that travell by
land or by water : in which number you were in my speciall memento
<paren> by way of provision </paren> yf you shold need yt .
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2525

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have hitherto had a very untoward spring , and such as the oldest
men alive say they have not seene the like , specially for this moneth
of Aprill wherin yt is observed that there hath not a day past but that
within the compasse of twelve howres there hath ben either raine ,
haile , snow or frost . CHAMBER,II,159.055.2526

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Monday was sevenight the Quene went from Denmarke House to
White-hall with somwhat more then usuall state beeing accompanied with
most of the nobilitie about the court and seven or eight and twenty
coaches . CHAMBER,II,159.055.2527

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday she removed to Greenwich , and the King the day before to
Tiballs , whence he comes backe at the end of the weeke ,
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2528

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and after some litle stay here meanes to settle at Greenwich , for some
time , so that the journy to Audley End and into Norfolke seemes to be
quite dasht aside and out of date . CHAMBER,II,159.055.2529

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
St. Georges day past with much solemnitie , the Lords and theyre
followers beeing very gay and gallant : specially the Lord of
Buckingham who was very bountifull to forty of his gentlemen , in
geving them a peece to provide themselves and a man to ten yeomen
<paren> which number of fifty they may not exceed by a prescript order
taken not long since </paren> besides an hundred pound he gave to make
them a supper and a play the next night at the Miter in Fleet-street :
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2530

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I must not forget that Master Packer was there very formally in his
blew-coat and a chaine of diamonds which I know where he borrowed .
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2531

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This day one Wrenam a gentleman of Norfolke is brought into the
Star-chamber ore-tenus <paren> as they call it </paren> for complaining
of a decree made against him by the Lord Chauncellor , <paren>
contrarie to two former decrees of his predecessor </paren> and
accusing him of injustice . CHAMBER,II,159.055.2532

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Howsoever yt be , the poore gentleman is in the wrong ,
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2533

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and suffered himself to be transported too far ,
CHAMBER,II,159.055.2534

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for unles he can prove corruption <paren> which were hard to do
</paren> he is like to undergo a sentence and <P_II,160> to be censured
. CHAMBER,II,160.055.2535

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our frend litle John Moore is in a pecke of troubles likewise in that
court , about a jugling deed of guift <paren> as is pretended </paren>
. CHAMBER,II,160.055.2536

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt hath ben heard two dayes alredy , CHAMBER,II,160.055.2537

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this day sevenight is peremptorilie set downe when he shall know
his doome . CHAMBER,II,160.055.2538

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He caries out the matter well and with great confidence
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2539

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have heard some <paren> not partiall </paren> that upon the
former hearings misdoubt him more then he doth himself .
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2540

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is now fully resolved that Sir Dudley Digges goes ambassador into
Moscovie about the end of the next moneth or beginning of June .
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2541

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Among a number of candidati for the bishopricke of Oxford I heare Dr.
Carleton elect bishop of Landaffe is in best possibilitie ;
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2542

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I could wish him a better that is like to fall shortly , yf the bishop
of Winchester be in so weake case as is reported , that the first warme
weather will cary him away of a dropsie . CHAMBER,II,160.055.2543

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Carleton is in towne , CHAMBER,II,160.055.2544

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but according to his custome comes <paren> as they say </paren> to
fetch fire , CHAMBER,II,160.055.2545

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he makes full account to be gon this day or to morow .
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2546

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with my best wishes I commend you to the protection of the Almighty
. CHAMBER,II,160.055.2547

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 29=th= of Aprill 1618 . CHAMBER,II,160.055.2548

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships to commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,160.055.2549

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_055:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,160.055.2550

<Q_CHM_A_1618_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_056> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,186>

{ED:306._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_28,_1618.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Upon the receyt of your letter of the 14=th= of
this present I went to my Lord of Winchester with the printed paper
<P_II,187> of the Sinode which he was glad to see and tooke kindly from
you , sayeng withall that he could make shift with the Dutch , and that
yt was the first generall Sinod that ever was held with one bishop .
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2551

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your commissioners are arrived , CHAMBER,II,187.056.2552

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what welcome they shall find I know not . CHAMBER,II,187.056.2553

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our people begin to flowte them alredy sayeng brawne is like to be
goode cheape this Christmas seeing so many boores are come to towne .
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2554

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare litle or nothing from Newmarket but that they devise all the
meanes they can to make themselves merrie , CHAMBER,II,187.056.2555

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
as of late there was a feast apointed at a farme house not far of ,
whether every man shold bring his dish . CHAMBER,II,187.056.2556

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King brought a greate chine of beefe , the marquis Hamilton fowre
pigges incircled with sauciges , the earle of Southampton two turkies ,
another sixe partridges , and one a whole trey full of butterd egges ,
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2557

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so all passed very pleasantly . CHAMBER,II,187.056.2558

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Suffolke hath ben put in hope that he shold have accesse
to the King , CHAMBER,II,187.056.2559

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and some dayes have ben designed for his comming ,
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2560

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but still by some let or other yt hath not succeded .
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2561

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Digby is to be made baron of Sherbourn .
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2562

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His patent is drawne , and as I heard yesterday delivered him :
CHAMBER,II,187.056.2563

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yt is generally saide that he and his Lady this next spring are to set
forward for Spaine . CHAMBER,II,187.056.2564

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have a common bruite that Sir Henry Cary $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
master of the wardes and so make way for Sir Edward Villers to be
controller ; CHAMBER,II,187.056.2565

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I shold marvayle how he could be induced in this rolling world to
leave certum pro incerto ; CHAMBER,II,187.056.2566

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the vicount Doncasters Lady hath brought him a sonne , which must be
but a second heyre CHAMBER,II,187.056.2567

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he had one by his first mariage . CHAMBER,II,187.056.2568

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt falles out true that I wrote this last weeke that Sir Thomas Smiths
sonne had maried the Lady Isabella Rich , without his fathers consent
or privitie , CHAMBER,II,187.056.2569

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the affront is the more beeing don in so goode companie as the
Countesse of Bedford with divers other Ladies and persons of account ,
wherof the Lord Chamberlain gave the bride , but not one of his frends
or kinred present or made acquainted withall ; which is thought a
straunge thing that so great a man and a counsaillor shold geve
countenance to such an action as the robbing a man of his <P_II,188>
only child , a youth of 18 yeares old CHAMBER,II,188.056.2570

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<paren> for he is no more , </paren> CHAMBER,II,188.056.2571

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sure I have seen the time that such a matter could not have ben so
caried . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2572

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They do now all of them labour the father , and geve him no rest , who
seeing there is no remedy I thincke $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} easilie
enough intreated and can be content to take her home , therby to kepe
her the farther out of harmes way . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2573

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here be two or three ships redy for Virginia , CHAMBER,II,188.056.2574

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and one Captain Yardley a meane fellow by way of provision goes as
governor , CHAMBER,II,188.056.2575

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to grace him the more the King knighted him this weeke at Newmarket
; which hath set him up so high that he flaunts yt up and downe the
streets in extraordinarie braverie , with fowrteen or fifteen fayre
liveries after him . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2576

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This day our longe terme ends CHAMBER,II,188.056.2577

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yesterday we had no Star-chamber , either by reason of my Lord
Chauncellors crasines , or for that the weather is extraordinarie cold
for so early in the yeare . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2578

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We looke for Master Wake dayly or rather howrely
CHAMBER,II,188.056.2579

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for his fore-runners are come alredy , as you may perceve by the
inclosed . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2580

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You will find litle in Sir Lewes Stukeleys apologie but that they
strive to beray one another ; CHAMBER,II,188.056.2581

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yt is like we shall have no further declaration , yf this may satisfie
, which hitherto finds litle credit . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2582

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But now when I was come thus far my man brings me an autenticall
declaration of all that busines . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2583

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not read a word of yt <paren> more then the title </paren>
CHAMBER,II,188.056.2584

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yt came forth but this morning , CHAMBER,II,188.056.2585

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and as I heare yt is the worke of the Lord Chauncellor , Master Atturny
or Secretarie Nanton : or rather fathered upon all three so that in all
probabilitie yt must be as true as well written .
CHAMBER,II,188.056.2586

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2587

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 28=th= of November 1618 . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2588

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:64
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:45
LETTER:CHAMBER_056:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships at commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,188.056.2589

<Q_CHM_A_1619_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_057> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,212>

{ED:317._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_13,_1619.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The noise of the Spanish preparations begins to
abate , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2590

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for here came letters this weeke that say they are neither-3 in that
number nor redines that we apprehended : CHAMBER,II,212.057.2591

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet here is order taken for sixe of the Kings ships and fowre pinnesses
to be rigged in all haste , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2592

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and our marchants adventurers , of the East India , Moscovia , French ,
Spanish , and Turkie companies , have order to prepare as many goode
ships as shall aunswer those in quantitie or tonnage , which is thought
will rise to twentie at least : CHAMBER,II,212.057.2593

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the pretence is against the pirates , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2594

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the charge is rated at which is to be raised by imposition of two
in the hundred upon all goods that come in or go out of the land for
two yeares only , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2595

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but when yt is once up , God knowes when yt will downe again .
CHAMBER,II,212.057.2596

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our greatest want <paren> they say </paren> is powder ,
CHAMBER,II,212.057.2597

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but letters are gon to make provision at Hamborough and in the east
countries yf yt may be had : CHAMBER,II,212.057.2598

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the murmure is the greater for that yt is saide <paren> how truly I
know not </paren> that the Spanish ambassador a litle before his going
hence had licence to transport a great quantitie , besides tunne of
yron ordinance : which yf yt had ben well looked to for these twentie
yeares past , all our sea-men and souldiers say yt had ben a greater
advantage to us then ever was our bowes and arrowes against our
ennemies . CHAMBER,II,212.057.2599

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The new Lord Admirall was to have gon yesterday to Rochester to
overlooke the navie , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2600

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the King could not spare him so long . CHAMBER,II,212.057.2601

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The countesse of Buckingham his mother came to towne on Saterday last ,
CHAMBER,II,212.057.2602

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Monday night was at the maske in White-hall ,
CHAMBER,II,212.057.2603

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but she begins alredy to complain of aches and distempers and that this
aire doth not agree with her , so that yt is likely she will not tary
long . CHAMBER,II,212.057.2604

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The old Lady Finch is the first that followes the fayre example ,
beeing upon the point of beeing created Vicountesse of Copt-hall in
Essex , CHAMBER,II,212.057.2605

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but upon what conditions I yet heare not . CHAMBER,II,212.057.2606

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The great mariage of your cousen Marwoode was celebrated upon Sonday
and the feast kept at the Rolles , where besides the two marquises were
the earle of Mongomerie , Lord Fenton , the Lord of Doncaster and
<P_II,213> others , with all the bed-chamber . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2607

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bride was very gallant they say and rich in jewells , and specially
bedeckt with diamonds . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2608

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King sent her a jewell by the Lord of Buckingham , <paren> I know
not of what value for the reports varie </paren> and a joynter of a
yeare out of the customes . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2609

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The plate geven her is valued at better then a $=li= {TEXT:1000=li=} .
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2610

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Rowland St. John this weeke hath maried a widow that brings him
about $=li= {TEXT:1500=li=} and a lease for three lives of more then
$=li= {TEXT:600=li=} a yeare above the rent : CHAMBER,II,213.057.2611

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but she is somwhat older then himself , beeing the wife of one Mathew
Small an old fellow of mine acquaintance . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2612

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your sisters are shut up here in towne the small pockes beeing come
among them , which began with your nieces litle daughter not full a
fortnight old , <paren> a thing I have seldome seene or heard of
</paren> and so spred to the other three children , and hitherto gon no
further : CHAMBER,II,213.057.2613

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I never knew them generally so infectious . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2614

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King meanes to go backe toward New-market on Monday .
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2615

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday he went to visit the Quene at Hampton Court :
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2616

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
he was in the Star-chamber anon after seven a clocke on Monday ,
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2617

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and had the maske that night , that he might be as early there again on
Wensday morning , both which dayes he held out with great patience till
after twelve . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2618

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is not possible for me to set downe the fortieth part of the
passages I have heard . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2619

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
No doubt you may have the most of them hereafter taken by such as were
present , CHAMBER,II,213.057.2620

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in generall he found great fault with the lawiers <paren> specially
Holt </paren> for theyre tedious repetitions and impertinent matter and
proofes , CHAMBER,II,213.057.2621

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall on Wensday made a kind of apologie for himself as yf he had
seemed partiall , protesting among other things that in this cause he
wold neither-1 aske God nor man forgivenes , for any partiall
inclination on either side : CHAMBER,II,213.057.2622

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there was straunge stuffe they say delivered , and indeed such as was
not to be heard in such a presence insinuated in such manner as was
generally understoode . CHAMBER,II,213.057.2623

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt seemes Sir Thomas Lake hath made very great meanes ,
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2624

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he and his daughter Rosse have bene twise or thrise at least with
the King since Sonday and perhaps since Wensday :
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2625

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath written as often : CHAMBER,II,213.057.2626

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet yf all I heard be true , within these few dayes the King saide he
was not for his service , that wold presume at this time in this cause
to write him lies , for whom the Spanish ambassador had ben so
importunat a suitor and soliciter , and one that was so devoutly prayed
for dayly at Brussells , as Trumball had sent him word
CHAMBER,II,213.057.2627

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall <P_II,214> openly in the Star Chamber upon Monday ex re
nata he gave an Item to all his secretaries or that stoode to be
secretaries not to impart matters of state to theyre wifes .
CHAMBER,II,214.057.2628

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This day he is at the Star-chamber again for the conclusion of this
busines , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2629

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for this is the day apointed for sentence and censure .
CHAMBER,II,214.057.2630

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I mean not to close up this letter till I have ben abrode and learned
how the world goes , yf I can light upon any body that hath bene there
. CHAMBER,II,214.057.2631

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Now upon enquirie I find that Sir Thomas Lake is fined at , his wife at
and the Lady Rosse at markes , besides costs to the Lady of Excester ,
to one Luke Hatton , to one Williams , to a gentlewoman called Mistris
Bushie , his sonne Sir Thomas at marks to the King and to the Lady of
Excester for putting in a crosse slaunderous bill into the court .
CHAMBER,II,214.057.2632

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Theyre further sentence is to make submission in that court <paren> or
where the King shall apoint </paren> to the Lady of Excester ,
CHAMBER,II,214.057.2633

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and himself , his Lady , and the Lady Rosse to imprisonment in the
Towre at theyre owne charge during life , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2634

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sara their maide to pay , to be publikely whipt and branded in the face
with F and A for a false accuser . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2635

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus in a manner Sir Ed. Cooke began , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2636

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was seconded by all the rest saving that the Lord Digby was somwhat
more milde , and wold have mollified his offence by the tender
affection he bare to his wife and childe , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2637

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he wold have had his fine lesse and his imprisonment chaunged into
confining to his owne house , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2638

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the King willed him to cleere him yf he could or condemne him with
the rest . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2639

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Fenton was not there at the censure , but all the other dayes
of hearing . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2640

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King spake long and excellently to every point , comparing this to
the first judgement , Sir Thomas Lake to Adam , his Lady to Eve and the
Lady Rosse to the serpent . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2641

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And this is the summe of all I could write you of the Kings sitting
five dayes in the Star-chamber . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2642

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He spake likewise to the justices of peace and Lieutenants of shires ,
to make preparations for musters , and to have all theyre trained men
redy at ten dayes warning , as likewise against papists that begin to
waxe bold upon opinion of a match with Spaine , with some other things
of like nature . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2643

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare his Majestie hath written a meditation upon the Lords prayer
and dedicated yt to the Lord of Buckingam . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2644

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is printed but not yet come foorth , CHAMBER,II,214.057.2645

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I hope to have yt for you the next weeke . CHAMBER,II,214.057.2646

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my <P_II,215> goode Lady
I commend you to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,II,215.057.2647

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 13=th= of February 1618 . CHAMBER,II,215.057.2648

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships at commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,215.057.2649

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_057:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,215.057.2650

<Q_CHM_A_1619_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_058> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,239>

{ED:328._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_May_31,_1619.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : At my comming to towne on Thursday , I met Dieston
just at our doore with your letter of the 19=th= of this present ;
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2651

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and having had no great leysure to learne newes , yet I wold not defer
to returne this inclosed , which together with the sentence <paren>
which I receved in the countrie </paren> geves me full satisfaction
touching Barnevelt , though I will not dissemble that divers of goode
judgement thincke he had hard measure , considering that no cleere
matter of conspiracie with the ennemies of the state appeares , or can
be proved , so that yt seemes to be meere matter of faction and
opposition rather then infidelitie or treacherie , which though perhaps
in England might be found treasonable or within that compasse , yet in
a new upstart commonwelth that hath so long contended and stands so
much upon libertie , they were not to proceed with such rigour against
a man of his yeares and service , specially when the sparing of the
rest makes manifest shew that they shot only at him .
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2652

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And though he were nothing gracious here , yet now he is gon , his
protestations both-1 by word and writing , together with his manner of
dieng so constantly and religiouslie move much commiseration
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2653

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and breed these discourses . CHAMBER,II,239.058.2654

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But there is hope that neither they nor wee shall have any misse of him
, but rather that we shall grow neerer and lincke together the surer ,
as alredy the King hath dissolved the difficulties of the East-India
busines and by his owne wisdome and authoritie brought them to accord :
which beeing indeed saide to be his owne act , they are to acknowlege
his gracious and pacificall disposition , and to aunswer yt in like
measure when yt comes to theyre turne . CHAMBER,II,239.058.2655

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Wensday St. Georges feast was kept at Greenwich ,
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2656

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yesterday the King removed to Theobalds , where yt is daylie
expected that we shall have now creations , CHAMBER,II,239.058.2657

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Marquis Hamilton to be made earle of Cambrige ,
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2658

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lord Obegni earle of Clare or March : CHAMBER,II,239.058.2659

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir John Villers Vicount Purbecke . CHAMBER,II,239.058.2660

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They speake likewise of the Lady Elizabeth Hatton to be created
countesse of Westmerland yf she will geve downe her milke plentifully ,
CHAMBER,II,239.058.2661

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt seemes she is not so easilie perswaded , nor $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} quite caught with that baite . CHAMBER,II,239.058.2662

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King hath taken paines of late to heare the questions <P_II,240>
and quarrells twixt her and Sir Edward Cooke her husband ,
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2663

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt seemes matters are so intricate , and on both sides si bien
assailli et si bien defendu , that the King wold not determine but
leaves yt yet as he found yt . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2664

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
These last holydayes the Prince got three of his learned counsaile
knighted Sir ... Chibbon his sergeant , Sir Jo: Walter his atturny and
Sir Tho: Trevire his solliciter . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2665

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Suffolks cause in the Star-chamber , with much labor is
put of till Michaelmas terme , in which interim the case may be altered
, beeing so much dejected both-2 in body and minde that some of his
best frends geve forth <paren> and wish withall </paren> that he will
hardly hold out . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2666

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When I had written thus far on Saterday comes Harman the post
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2667

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wold needes assure me that he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} gon as this
evening , upon which promise I have deferred to finish this letter to
see yf any thing els might fall out in the meane time ,
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2668

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but this is all I can learne that the King comes to White-hall to morow
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2669

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and our aldermen and citizens must go to meet him in theyre best arraye
to welcome him to towne after his daungerous sicknes ,
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2670

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but this triumphe sutes not so well with the condolings that are to
come after by divers ambassadors that are saide to be on the way .
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2671

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Marquis of Trinell went hence in Whitson-weeke , after he had ben
feasted by the earle of Dorset , and the Duke of Lennox that made him a
supper at Whitehall of , which wold have cost another the double , but
that he is Lord Steward . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2672

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Parker the examiner of the Star-chamber is in a relaps beeing committed
to the Gate-house by the Kings owne commaundment , and another sworne
in his place <paren> as I heare </paren> which is an yll signe that all
is not well . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2673

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Lake and his Lady and theyre sonne Sir Arthure are all close
prisoners still , CHAMBER,II,240.058.2674

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so are like to be till all be discovered . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2675

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Piero the Quenes French-man and her Dutch maide Anna are likewise clapt
up for embeaseling of jewells <paren> as is thought </paren> to the
value of . CHAMBER,II,240.058.2676

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of Norwich is now dead indeed , CHAMBER,II,240.058.2677

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Dr. Harneset of Chichester is saide shall succeed him , and so the
Deane of Westminster to Chichester , CHAMBER,II,240.058.2678

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Dr. Younge dean of Winchester shold come to Westminster ,
CHAMBER,II,240.058.2679

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the bishop of Landaffe comes in <P_II,241> tempore to alter the
case CHAMBER,II,241.058.2680

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I heare for certain that he shall remove to Chichester , which
though yt be not altogether so goode as I could wish him , yet is yt a
great deale better then his Welsh diocesse : CHAMBER,II,241.058.2681

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
when I was with him at Islington the day after I came to towne , he
wold not cleerly confesse how forward he was in his hopes , because he
was willing to be the first shold geve you notice of yt himself :
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2682

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have since heard divers wayes that there is no question of yt .
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2683

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Steven Some our auncientest alderman died on Trinitie Sonday
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2684

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and left a great estate behind him of better then $=li= {TEXT:6000=li=}
land , and goods . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2685

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The same day Paules Crosse mourned being hangd with blacke cloth and
scutcheons of the Quenes armes , CHAMBER,II,241.058.2686

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and all our alderman and officers of this towne came thether in blacke
as yt were postliminio . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2687

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Because they were forgotten or neglected at the funerall , the King to
please them wold needs have yt don now . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2688

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Only the Lord Mayor was not there , beeing very sicke , and surfeted
upon messages sent him by the King about his only daughter , whom the
countesse of Buckingham will needs have for her sonne Christofer ,
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2689

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Mayor beeing a wilfull and dogged man will not yeeld by any
meanes fayre nor fowle as yet , CHAMBER,II,241.058.2690

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wishes himself and his daughter both dead rather then to be
compelled . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2691

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The truth is she is not past fowreteen and very litle of growth , so
that he protests he will not marrie her these fowre or five yeares by
his will . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2692

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But yet he hath taken the Kings messages so to heart that he hath ben
at deaths doore , and is not yet so recovered but that he sayes yt lies
there still , though the Duke of Lennox and Marquis Buckingham have ben
severally with him besides divers others from the King to comfort him .
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2693

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard this day that the Marquis Buckingham hath a meaning to resigne
his mastership of the horse to his brother Sir John Villers , and Kit
to succeed him in his place about the Prince , CHAMBER,II,241.058.2694

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yf the Lady Hatton will geve present possession of the yle of
Purbecke to her sonne Sir John Villers and assure the rest that they
demaund , she $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} made countesse of Purbecke and
he vicount ; CHAMBER,II,241.058.2695

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yf not , Sir Ed: Cooke her husband is to be made a baron to spite her .
CHAMBER,II,241.058.2696

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady of Bedford went to Dover to meet her mother the Lady
Harrington , CHAMBER,II,241.058.2697

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and brought her to towne the last weeke . CHAMBER,II,241.058.2698

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode <P_II,242> Lady
I commend you to the protection of the Almighty :
CHAMBER,II,242.058.2699

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this last of May 1619 . CHAMBER,II,242.058.2700

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships at commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,242.058.2701

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_058:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,242.058.2702

<Q_CHM_A_1619_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_059> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,268>

{ED:339._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_October_30,_1619.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Some three or fowre dayes since I receved a letter
from the Lady Smith with some preserved damsens in two boxes to be
conveyed to your Lady at the Hagh . CHAMBER,II,268.059.2703

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf I could have met with any of your messengers they shold have ben
sent now , CHAMBER,II,268.059.2704

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but howsoever yt comes to passe me thinckes I have heard of none of
them many a day . CHAMBER,II,268.059.2705

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Three of the deare-stealers I wrote you of were arraigned the last
weeke at the Kings Bench , and executed at Hide-parke gate the day
following . CHAMBER,II,268.059.2706

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One of theyre names was Wornall a very proper gentle man <paren> they
say </paren> CHAMBER,II,268.059.2707

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and spake very well for himself , CHAMBER,II,268.059.2708

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but a poore labouring man was most pitied that was hired for sixe pence
to hold theyre doggs and beare them companie to the gallowes .
CHAMBER,II,268.059.2709

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All the Clergie in this towne were called of late before the bishop of
London upon a letter sent from the King complaining that they used to
neglect or curtall his titles of defender of the faith , and supreme
head or governor in all causes and over all persons as well
ecclesiasticall as civill , as likewise that they did not particularly
<P_II,269> mention and pray for the archbishops and bishops , all which
they are enjoyned to do from hencefoorth not perfunctorie but severally
and at large . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2710

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sim Digby is returned a goode while since out of Spaine ,
CHAMBER,II,269.059.2711

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what he carried or what he brought I heare not .
CHAMBER,II,269.059.2712

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He went no further then to the counsaile at Madrid , the king beeing
far of at Lisbone : CHAMBER,II,269.059.2713

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lord Digbie is redy at all points CHAMBER,II,269.059.2714

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thincks long to be gon , having <paren> they say </paren> allowed
him for his journy , wherof in monie , and land assured him for more ,
which yf yt be not payed him at two yeares end he is to enjoy to him
and his , beeing estemed in value almost double that summe .
CHAMBER,II,269.059.2715

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time Ely House is preparing and tricking up for the
Spanish ambassador , which $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but be some
discountenance to religion to have masse as yt were publikely and
ordinarilie saide in a bishops chappell . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2716

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Suffolkes cause is now handling in the Star-chamber ,
beeing drawne out at such length that yt hath lasted five dayes there
alredy : CHAMBER,II,269.059.2717

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
that is Wensday and Friday the last weeke , and now Wensday , Thursday
and yesterday , when yt was put of till the of the next moneth , for
that the next Wensday is the usuall day for nomination of sheriffes ,
and Friday is the fifth of November a parliament holy-day in
remembrance of the powder-treason . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2718

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There be fowle things layed open as the defrauding the King to the
value of in jewells , but for that they have a pardon and quietus est
under the great seale of England , which is to them as an armor of
proofe in that point . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2719

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Then are they charged with cousinage in the alume busines , with
misemployeng the Kings treasure many wayes , with abuse in the payments
of Ireland , and finally with many extortions , concussions , and fowle
corruptions in all that passed thorough theyre hands :
CHAMBER,II,269.059.2720

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Bingley is likewise hardly layed to , CHAMBER,II,269.059.2721

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he makes a shew of great confidence howsoever he will acquit
himself . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2722

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Marquis Buckingam , the earles of Arundell and Southampton , the
Lord Knolles and Master Controller were at none of the hearings , upon
severall and speciall reasons . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2723

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King wold faine have had the matter fully ended and censured before
his comming hither , CHAMBER,II,269.059.2724

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and to that end gave order they shold sit extraordinarilie on Thursday
and this day , CHAMBER,II,269.059.2725

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the cause is so long that yt could not be finished so soone ,
yesterday beeing the first that the parties charged began theyre
defence . CHAMBER,II,269.059.2726

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King comes to towne this night from Theobalds where he hath taken
order and geven <P_II,270> commission to inlarge that parke with I know
not how many hundred acres that must be added to yt .
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2727

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday was our Lord Maiors feast and solemnitie , which most of the
counsaile and great Lords did honor with theyre presence :
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2728

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but for an yll hanssell two men were slaine with his peale of chambers
or ordinance . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2729

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
No doubt you have heard of the death of your sister Carleton who
deceased more then a fortnight since , CHAMBER,II,270.059.2730

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I heare your brother is a very sorowfull man though he could not
but expect yt now a great while ago and so might have ben better
prepared . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2731

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Neither do I thincke yt is any newes to you , that your cousen Carleton
bishop of Chichester shall marrie the Lady Nevill Sir Henries widow .
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2732

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have hitherto had a wonderfull calme and pleasant autumne , without
windes or tempests , and without any raine in a manner since the
beginning of August till this last weeke , which was not much neither ,
so that they complaine of drougth almost every where , and that the
ground is so hard that they can neither till , sowe , hunt , nor hawke
, CHAMBER,II,270.059.2733

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but sure otherwise yt hath ben a very sweet season ,
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2734

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and pitie yt is that such faire weather shold do harme .
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2735

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Within these two howres I had a letter from Sir Isaac Wake without any
great matter of newes but compliment and kindenes , which I am much
beholden to him for without any manner of cause or desert , but that yt
is his pleasure . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2736

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He writes of great preparations and entertainments upon the top of
Mount Senis to receve the princesse of Piemont and of great troubles
among the Suisses and Grisons which I have not heard of before , as
likewise that the Jesuites hold a chapter of theyre order at Rome
whether Pere Coton is sent out of Fraunce , with particuler presents
from that king to St. Carlo and our Lady of Loretto wherby he is
entertained as a kind of ambassador to those saints ; and withall that
he geves out that all the Jesuites in China and Japan have ben
publikely whipped and condemned to perpetuall imprisonment upon
suggestion of the English and Hollanders that they serve only for spies
. CHAMBER,II,270.059.2737

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2738

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this of October 1619 . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2739

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships at commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,270.059.2740

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:65
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:46
LETTER:CHAMBER_059:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,270.059.2741

<Q_CHM_A_1620_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_060> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,295>

{ED:350._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_March_20,_1620.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Upon the receyt of your letter by Dieston I sought
out Sir Dudley Digges <paren> who by goode hap was then in towne
</paren> CHAMBER,II,295.060.2742

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and delivered him your letter , as likewise to Master Wingfeld and
Master Bell , who could tell no certaintie of any present apointed for
you , but only there had ben a speach of somwhat to be don , which when
yt shold be set downe and delivered to him , he wold according to your
letter consigne yt to me . CHAMBER,II,295.060.2743

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He seemes to have ben very forward and carefull in your behalfe ,
CHAMBER,II,295.060.2744

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the greatest error was that yt was not thought on in the due time ,
when the dole was a dealing , CHAMBER,II,295.060.2745

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yt will come now somwhat unseasonablie , upon the losse of this
ship which imports them <paren> they say </paren> more then a thing
never heard of that a ship of eight or nine hundred tunnes shold be
cast away between this and Gravesend : CHAMBER,II,295.060.2746

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they have had men about her these eight or ten dayes at least ,
CHAMBER,II,295.060.2747

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and are at the charge of a day to recover her , CHAMBER,II,295.060.2748

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet for ought I heare they have litle other hope but to cut her in
pieces and save what they can by morsells : CHAMBER,II,295.060.2749

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
by reason of these mishaps both outward and homeward , and by factions
and jarres among themselves the reputation of that companie is much
empaired , as likewise the credit of the farmers of the customs begins
to cracke , by the shrincking of Sir Frances Jones and Sir Nicolas
Salter who is accounted litle worth , CHAMBER,II,295.060.2750

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the former though he had got together a great deale of land of Sir
Thomas Parries and others , yet upon the reckening yt will scarse hold
out to pay his debts . CHAMBER,II,295.060.2751

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And whether yt be by reason of the extremitie used to the marchant
straungers or what other cause of discouragement there be I know not ,
CHAMBER,II,295.060.2752

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but surely trade is as yt were at a stand , CHAMBER,II,295.060.2753

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this towne doth visiblie decay . CHAMBER,II,295.060.2754

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The king of Bohemia wrote a letter to the Lord Mayor and his bretheren
for the loan of who imparting yt to the King , he saide he wold neither
commaund them nor intreat them but yf they did any thing for his sonne
in law he wold take yt kindly : wherupon the mayor conferring with the
<P_II,296> court of aldermen they referred the matter to the common
counsaile , who putting yt over to the wardens and severall companies
receved aunswer , that when yt shold please the King to declare himself
, so that things might be lawfully and orderly don , and when they
shold see what the Clergie , nobilitie , and the rest of the realme
wold do , they wold looke into theyre purses and see what they could do
. CHAMBER,II,296.060.2755

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Spanish ambassador going to his first audience the 12=th= of this
present , as he passed from the counsaile chamber over the tarras to go
into the great chamber a piece of the floore suncke ,
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2756

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and divers fell downe as my Lord of Arundell who hurt his face .
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2757

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The yong Lord Gerrard and the Lord Gray were likewise hurt with the
fall , and many others , CHAMBER,II,296.060.2758

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but two of the Guarde stayed the ambassador that he fell not .
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2759

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King $can $not {TEXT:cannot} endure to have this accident mentioned
or interpreted as ominous . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2760

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The ambassador went after the King on Wensday to Hampton Court to a
private audience , CHAMBER,II,296.060.2761

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what satisfaction he geves or receves I heare not ;
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2762

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he seemes discontented that he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} have the key
of his backe doore into the feilds , which the Lady Hatton will not
part with , no not upon a message from the King more then to have one
of her people waite upon him with yt , for his private egresse and
regresse . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2763

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Amstrother is dispatcht CHAMBER,II,296.060.2764

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and goes this weeke ambassador into Denmarke . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2765

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Carre in lieu of burning in the hand is banished the Kings
dominions during pleasure . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2766

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dr. Fotherbie bishop of Salisberie died some eight dayes since ,
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2767

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his bishopricke bestowed on the Dean of Westminster , to whom one
Williams deane of Salisberie succeeds , CHAMBER,II,296.060.2768

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Dr. Bowles <paren> who pretends a promise of Westminster </paren>
must content himself with the deanrie of Salisberie :
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2769

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
in the mean time poore Dr. Dun is cast behind hand and fallen from his
hopes . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2770

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of Chichester preached yesterday at court ,
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2771

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but what or how he did I have not yet heard . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2772

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your bill of preachers this Lent was faultie in naming the bishop of
Chester for Chichester . CHAMBER,II,296.060.2773

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Lake upon shew of weaknes and sicknes is at libertie upon bond
to return prisoner to the Towre yf she make not her confession and
submission in the Starchamber before the end of next terme .
CHAMBER,II,296.060.2774

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The match twixt the Lord of <P_II,297> Buckingam and the Lady Katherine
Mannors is either made or mard , CHAMBER,II,297.060.2775

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for on Sonday was sevenight the Lady of Buckingam fetcht her to supper
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2776

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and kept her all night without her fathers leave or liking , so that
when she brought her home the next day in the afternoon he wold not
receve her . CHAMBER,II,297.060.2777

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
How matters stand between them since , I know not ,
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2778

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I heare she is now with her great uncle the Lord Knevet .
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2779

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This manner of dealing is much spoken of , CHAMBER,II,297.060.2780

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hitherto neither side hath gained by yt , beeing subject to much
construction . CHAMBER,II,297.060.2781

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Marquis Hamilton was made a gentleman of the bedchamber about a
fortnight since , without the privitie <paren> as we say </paren> of
the Lord of Buckingam . CHAMBER,II,297.060.2782

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is great speach and expectation of the Kings comming to Paules
Crosse on Sonday next , where the bishop of London should preach his
court-sermon in the afternoone : CHAMBER,II,297.060.2783

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
some surmise that the King will there deliver somwhat touching the
matters of Bohemia , others , concerning this intended match with
Spaine , CHAMBER,II,297.060.2784

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yf yt so fall out that he come I rather beleve yt is about the
repairing of Paules which indeed growes very ruinous .
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2785

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,297.060.2786

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this of March 1619 . CHAMBER,II,297.060.2787

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2788

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We have much speach here that Tobie Mathew shold be dead ,
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2789

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but because you write nothing of yt , I hope yt is not so .
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2790

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_060:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,297.060.2791

<Q_CHM_A_1620_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_061> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,321>

{ED:362._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_October_14,_1620.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The terme is yet so younge that yt hath brought
foorth hitherto litle or nothing worth the relating ,
CHAMBER,II,321.061.2792

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only the first day Sir Thomas Chamberlain Cheife Justice of Wales and
Chester was sworne a judge of the Kings Bench , at whose admission the
Lord Chauncellor tooke occasion to inlarge himself much upon the
prerogative , and how neere yt was a kinne and of bloud <paren> as he
termed yt </paren> to the common-law , sayeng further <paren>
whatsoever some unlearned lawiers might prattle to the contrarie
</paren> that yt was the accomplishment and perfection of the common
law : which new doctrine but now broached is perhaps to prepare the way
to a purpose in hand that all men $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} rated and
pay by way of subsidie as yf yt were don by parliament , and those that
refuse their names to be certified , that order may be taken with them
. CHAMBER,II,321.061.2793

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This hath quite put downe the speach of a parliament for the present ,
and perhaps the name of yt for hereafter . CHAMBER,II,321.061.2794

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Though the nobilitie and counsaile went cherefully on in the former
course of benevolence or contribution , some offering largely for the
present , some for yeares , <paren> among whom Secretarie Nanton rated
himself at a yeare a guerra finita , yf he lived so long </paren> yet
yt was thought yt wold not hold out , and that yt wold prove a
reckening without our hoast , wherfore yt was found requisite to make
yt a common burden that so yt might be the better borne .
CHAMBER,II,321.061.2795

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Suffolke growes still in grace CHAMBER,II,321.061.2796

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt was verely thought and saide this weeke that he shold recover
the counsaile table . CHAMBER,II,321.061.2797

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus we see how yt pleases fortune to play fast and loose ;
CHAMBER,II,321.061.2798

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is likewise thought that yf <P_II,322> Sir Thomas Lake had not
fallen into this late misfortune of breaking his arme <paren> beeing
otherwise sore bruised and brusht </paren> that he had ben in his old
remitter , so potent are the meanes and mediations of the Spanish
ambassador , as you may partly perceve by this inclosed letter of
supererogation , wherin he is more then justified , and which he hath
dispersed and sent far and neere . CHAMBER,II,322.061.2799

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Samms is stept aside and gon for Bohemia <paren> as is
pretended </paren> beeing overladen and redy to sincke under the
burthen of his debts . CHAMBER,II,322.061.2800

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday by a pincke of Flushing here came newes that the Princes of
the Union had geven Spinola a great overthrow and slaine of his men ,
and that order was come from the Hagh to all the townes to geve God
thancks and make bonfires : CHAMBER,II,322.061.2801

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yf the fellow had seen these rejoycings , or could build his report
upon any sound foundation , or that he had not deceved us once before ,
with a tale that Count Henry and our forces had slaine of Spinolas men
sent to intercept them in their passage over the Moselle , I could be
as glad to geve credit to him as any man , CHAMBER,II,322.061.2802

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I wish as well to the cause , CHAMBER,II,322.061.2803

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I love not to go backward in beleefe : CHAMBER,II,322.061.2804

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yf yt be true now yt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} true still ,
CHAMBER,II,322.061.2805

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but howsoever , God will do yt in his goode time , to whose holy
protection I commend you and remain , Your Lordships most assuredly at
commaund John Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,322.061.2806

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 14=th= of October . CHAMBER,II,322.061.2807

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:66
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:47
LETTER:CHAMBER_061:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,322.061.2808

<Q_CHM_A_1621_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_062> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,346>

{ED:373._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_February_27,_1621.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Upon the receyt of your letter of the 5=th= of
this present I acquainted Master Salmon and his sonne with what you had
written concerning them and their busines , as likewise with the
abstract of the States order touching what manner of acquittance they
were to make , which to them seemed straunge <paren> as likewise to
myself </paren> considering that their pretences and suit was only for
the ordinance , powder , tackle , musketts and other ymplements
belonging to the ship wherof they were owners , and wherof they had
delivered a particuler in writing , whereas they made no mention nor
had to do with the goods belonging to the marchants which by theyre
account might arise to the value of sterling , and which pertained to
another reckening : CHAMBER,II,346.062.2809

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and indeed yt had ben a very easie rate to compound for such a summe
for gilders . CHAMBER,II,346.062.2810

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But yt $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be they shold misunderstand the matter
so grossly , but only to delay and delude all that deale with them .
CHAMBER,II,346.062.2811

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In truth they begin every day to be descried and decried more and more
, CHAMBER,II,346.062.2812

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and their best frends who for the common considerations of religion and
neighborhoode alwayes wisht them well , crie out upon them for the
continuall injuries and insolencies we receve from them , so that the
goode affection was borne them breakes out into indignation , that
those of whom we have so many wayes deserved so well shold thus requite
us . CHAMBER,II,346.062.2813

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Dudley Digges and his consort are come thence nothing well edified
, CHAMBER,II,346.062.2814

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have heard an inckling that your inclination to smooth and excuse
them all you can , which no doubt is don for the best , <paren> and
proceeds of a reall disposition to do all manner of goode </paren> is
not alwayes here so interpreted . CHAMBER,II,346.062.2815

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But howsoever this matter go forward I assure you Salmon speakes all
possible goode of your honorable favor towards him , and was preparing
a present of beere for acknowlegement thereof : thincking assuredly
that he was at the end of his trouble CHAMBER,II,346.062.2816

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and my Lord of Winchester was writing you a letter of thancks in his
behalfe , which he told me he wold do nevertheles , by this bearer , in
regard your goode indevor deserved all manner of thanckefulnes .
CHAMBER,II,346.062.2817

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And this may be enough yf not too much in <P_II,347> this busines
wherein I have ben the more large because you wrote so confidently that
you had rid the court of this and like causes , wheras for ought I see
he is to begin again and is but where he was . CHAMBER,II,347.062.2818

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King went yesterday to Tiballs though he be much pained in his feet
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} go ; CHAMBER,II,347.062.2819

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lord Digby went away towards the archduke on Sonday in the
afternoone , well accompanied yt seemes CHAMBER,II,347.062.2820

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he had three barges wherof two were the Kings owne .
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2821

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All the nether house communicated on Sonday was sevenight at St.
Margerets where Dr. Usher <paren> newly made bishop of Meath in Ireland
</paren> made as I heare but a drie sermon and kept them so long , that
yt was very neere two a clocke before they had all don .
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2822

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They follow their busines hard , CHAMBER,II,347.062.2823

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but have so many hares on foote at once that they hinder one another .
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2824

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They are now in hand with patents CHAMBER,II,347.062.2825

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have called in divers as one for pedlers or pettichapmen , wherin
Sir Fraunces Blundell had a part , another for ynnes belonging to Sir
Giles Mountperson who is in daunger to be committed , his cause beeing
to be determined this day , CHAMBER,II,347.062.2826

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he makes such humble submission , CHAMBER,II,347.062.2827

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and promises such service in discoverie of secrets in case he may find
favor , that yt is likely he may scape better cheape then Justice
Michell , who on Friday had his patent of alehouses taken from him and
was sent to the Towre on foot <paren> by expresse order , </paren>
overwearied and laden with disgraces as to be called an ale-knight ,
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2828

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt was propounded to have him degraded from his knighthood , to
weare a paper in his hat , with a number of other contumelies .
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2829

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One Dixon belonging to the now Lord Treasurer and partner in the same
patent , found more favor because he made yt appeare that he had no
commoditie by yt ; CHAMBER,II,347.062.2830

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but his name was only used : CHAMBER,II,347.062.2831

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there be many glaunces and aspersions upon the referendaries , who gave
way and certified of the lawfulnes or conveniencie of these patents ,
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2832

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they are for the most part such as are like to be out of their
reach . CHAMBER,II,347.062.2833

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is likewise one Churchhill a kind of register of the chauncerie
throwne out beeing convicted of making many false orders .
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2834

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They have likewise a cast at divers courts , CHAMBER,II,347.062.2835

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is doubted they will verefie the Italian proverbe chi troppo
abbraccia nulla stringe . CHAMBER,II,347.062.2836

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Saterday they lost one of their members Sir Henry Portman a younge
baronnet of Somersetshire of great living that maried a daughter of the
earle of Darbies and died of the smallpoxe or purples :
CHAMBER,II,347.062.2837

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Sebastian Harvy died the last weeke <P_II,348> without a will ,
having a goode time before as they say made a deede of guift of all he
had lands and goods to his wife , thereby to defeat his daughters
suters , yf that will serve , and may stand goode .
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2838

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was a kind of combination among the younger Lordes to present a
petition to his Majestie about the precedence of Scottish and Irish
vicounts , wherwith they found themselves agreeved , and had subscribed
names to the number of five or sixe and thirty ,
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2839

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the matter was discovered before yt was full ripe ,
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2840

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the King was much offended with yt , CHAMBER,II,348.062.2841

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and caused the counsaile to call divers of them before them and to
demaund the writing of them , which they refused a great while , but in
the end delivered yt to the Prince as Prince and not as a counsaillor
who presenting yt to his father the King tooke more exceptions to the
manner then the matter , and calling all or most of them to him
severally schooled them soundly , but in conclusion dismissed them
graciously with kissing his hand . CHAMBER,II,348.062.2842

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This accident moved him the more , because a misunderstanding having so
long continued twixt him and the nether house , <paren> and they now
agreeing so well , </paren> the wind shold thus come about into a
corner of the upper house . CHAMBER,II,348.062.2843

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They were for the most part of the younger sort of Lords as the earles
of Oxford , Essex , Lincoln , Dorset , Salisberie , though among the
barons some might seeme more grave as the Lord Sheffeild , Lord Spenser
, Lord Haughten and others , CHAMBER,II,348.062.2844

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I understoode not the reason at first why the earles shold take
this course , CHAMBER,II,348.062.2845

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they say yt was in regard of their elder sonnes .
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2846

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you both to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,348.062.2847

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 27=th= of February . CHAMBER,II,348.062.2848

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2849

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_062:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,348.062.2850

<Q_CHM_A_1621_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_063> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,380>

{ED:384._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_June_9,_1621.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : I have waited all this weeke upon Sir Thomas
Winnes going , to send you the upshot of our parlement for this sitting
: CHAMBER,II,380.063.2851

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they brake up on Monday having the day before sent twelve Lords and
fowre and twentie of the nether house to geve his Majestie thanckes for
leaving yt to their choice whether they wold continue fourteen dayes
longer or adjourn yt to a further time ; which they rather made
election of for divers reasons : CHAMBER,II,380.063.2852

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the King told them yt was long of themselves that matters were in no
more forwardnes , that they began well but had trifled ever since
Easter , picking out rather and ayming at particuler persons then going
about to reforme courts of justice or grevances of the common wealth .
CHAMBER,II,380.063.2853

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So on Monday there was a commission to 25 Lords to adjourne the
parlement till the 14 of November , which beeing sent downe to the
lower house by the Lord Cheife-baron accompanied by fowre or five of
the gravest judges and the atturny generall , they receved , but read
yt not , but as yt were of themselves adjourned the house to the
prefixed time , CHAMBER,II,380.063.2854

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
a needlesse curiositie <paren> perhaps </paren> when yt lies in the
Kings hands to prolong yt then at pleasure , CHAMBER,II,380.063.2855

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but before their rising <paren> with a great deale <P_II,381> of
alacritie </paren> they framed this inclosed declaration in forme of an
act ; which beeing at first related to the King by some that
misunderstoode yt <paren> as yf they had taken upon them to taxe his
manner of treating , and to undertake the cause of religion of
themselves </paren> bred great distast , CHAMBER,II,381.063.2856

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but upon sight of the thing yt self , was as pleasing and as well
accepted as there was cause , insomuch that he will have yt translated
into divers languages . CHAMBER,II,381.063.2857

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King at his beeing in the house on Saterday made a kind of petition
<paren> as he termed yt </paren> that the earle of Arundell making his
submission to the house might be released , <paren> and for what
concerned the Lord Spenser the Prince shold compound yt between them
</paren> , which was easilie yeelded unto and he set at libertie the
same day . CHAMBER,II,381.063.2858

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Chauncellor thought yt long CHAMBER,II,381.063.2859

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and could not endure to tarrie behind , so that by importunitie getting
the Kinges hand for his inlargement , <paren> with order to make no use
of yt till the parlement were risen </paren> he could deferre no longer
but came away that night after ten a clocke to his owne house .
CHAMBER,II,381.063.2860

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And among many discourses of chaunges , of placing and displacing of
officers , not worth the relating <paren> because the reports alter
every day </paren> he is not forgotten , but named to be Lord President
of the counsaile , as likewise the earle of Mongomerie to be made a
counsaillor , and to have the fee farme or free guift of Hatfeild Chase
in Yorkeshire <paren> a matter of great value , </paren> yf his brother
of Pembroke be Lord Treasurer , and the earle of Arundell Lord
Chamberlain . CHAMBER,II,381.063.2861

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Wentworth of Yorkeshire is in speach to be made Vicount
Wentworth and Sir Edward Montague to be a baron , besides divers others
both-3 in England and Ireland : and the Lord Cheife Justice to marrie a
young daughter of Sir John Butlers and so to be of the kinred .
CHAMBER,II,381.063.2862

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Edward Villers was cleered and absolved a culpa et poena on Monday
by the Lords and so declared to the nether house ,
CHAMBER,II,381.063.2863

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he had like to have marred all on Sonday at the court by his
unseasonable braving some of them <paren> when they came to the King ,
</paren> yf the matter had not ben timely taken up .
CHAMBER,II,381.063.2864

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not whether I wrote you that the Lady of Doncaster was gon to
the Spaa with the Lady Isabella Smith in her companie and that her Lord
had delivered her for her ordinarie expenses , of he had lately geven
him , as likewise the Marquis Hamilton is to have as much for his
journy into Scotland toward the parlement there .
CHAMBER,II,381.063.2865

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But the greatest <P_II,382> summe is gon with the Lord Digbie which
rises daylie in report , by those that take upon them to know the
particuler payments . CHAMBER,II,382.063.2866

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God send he may perform aliquid dignum tanto hiatu :
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2867

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the world lookes for litle goode that way seeing he hath taken
Tobie Mathew and Gage for his principall agents and assistants .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2868

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God knowes how yt comes to passe , CHAMBER,II,382.063.2869

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but sure mens hearts begin to sincke , and feare that religion is in
hard case as well at home as abrode , CHAMBER,II,382.063.2870

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for Fraunce great multitudes of those poore soules flocke over
daylie as well hither as all along our western coast to save themselves
from the storme that threatens them , and withall to implore our
promised aide in this distresse , CHAMBER,II,382.063.2871

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but though we geve goode words yet there is no preparation nor signe of
succour , unles perhaps the casheerring of the Scottish guard , and
some other pensioners of that nation may gall and wound us more and
breed greater indignation then care or zeale of the common cause .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2872

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishopricke of Carlile is bestowed on the bishop of St. Davids ,
and St. Davids upon Dr. Gwin master of St. Johns in Cambridge .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2873

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of Lincoln is like to come to London , Dr. Williams to
Lincoln , and Dr. Laud president of St. Johns in Oxford and Deane of
Glocester to Westminster , and Dr. Dunne to Glocester .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2874

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is expected the great seale $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} delivered to
morrow {REMOVE:check_text} tot he Lord Cheife Justice as Lord Keper ,
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2875

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but there be so many named to succeed him , that yt is a hard matter to
devine where yt will light . CHAMBER,II,382.063.2876

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This hath ben a very tempestuous weeke CHAMBER,II,382.063.2877

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and we heare of divers ships as well English as straungers cast away in
the Downes , among the rest the Phoenix comming richly laden from
Turkie or the Levant . CHAMBER,II,382.063.2878

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So referring all the rest here current to Sir Thomas Winnes relation ,
<paren> who comes no doubt full fraught , </paren> I commend you and my
goode Lady to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,382.063.2879

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 9=th= of June 1621 . CHAMBER,II,382.063.2880

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2881

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_063:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,382.063.2882

<Q_CHM_A_1621_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_064> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,407>

{ED:395._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_17,_1621.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Though I love not ydle and altogether empty
letters , yet upon Diestons alarme I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be silent
though I have litle or nothing to say . CHAMBER,II,407.064.2883

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is become a new maried man CHAMBER,II,407.064.2884

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was on Monday here in towne coupled to a young widow that kepes an
ynne at Gravesend , a goode handsom woman , CHAMBER,II,407.064.2885

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I doubt she brought him litle but her owne proper person .
CHAMBER,II,407.064.2886

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Keper was consecrated on Sonday last by some of those bishops
I named , CHAMBER,II,407.064.2887

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though your cousin of Chichester were in the number yet by reason
of indisposition <paren> or some other accident </paren> he was not
present , CHAMBER,II,407.064.2888

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the bishops of Worcester , Oxford , and Landaffe supplied with the
rest , though one or two of them were supernumerarie and came without
calling : CHAMBER,II,407.064.2889

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they are to performe the same office to morow at the bishop of Londons
to the elects of Salisberie , St. Davids , and Excester ,
CHAMBER,II,407.064.2890

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then we are like to have our new Deane Dr. Dun at Paules , so as a
pleasant companion saide that yf Ben Johnson might be <P_II,408> made
deane of Westminster , that place , Paules , and Christchurch , shold
be furnished with three very pleasant poeticall deanes .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2891

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Wensday divers Lords , knights and burgesses met in the parliament
house according to the first apointment , to adjourne yt till Tewsday
next : CHAMBER,II,408.064.2892

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there Sir Jerome Horsey made a motion they might have a sermon to
begin withall , which for ought I heare was not much hearkened to :
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2893

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yt seemes we grow into a superstitious opinion of sermons as the
papists do of the masse , that nothing can be don without them ,
insomuch that an ydle custome beeing lately brought up , that all
Cheshire men about this towne , Staffordshire men , Northampton ,
Sussex , Suffolke <paren> et sic de caeteris </paren> shold have a
meeting once a yeare at some hall and layeng their monie together have
a feast , yt must not be don without a sermon ; as likewise the
Virginia companie had this weeke at Grocers Hall , where there have ben
three or fowre of this kind within these ten dayes .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2894

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King is now at Newmarket having stayed longer at Roiston then he
meant by reason the Marquis Buckingam was crased and sickly .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2895

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many straunge discourses went about of his daunger and disease , which
was variously reported to be somtime of one kind somtime of another ,
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2896

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but at last yt was certainly saide to be the small pockes , wheras yt
proves nothing so , CHAMBER,II,408.064.2897

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he is fully recovered and in as goode state as {in}_P he was ;
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2898

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his Lady with the Countesse his mother are come to Newmarket yf we
may beleve that we heare ; CHAMBER,II,408.064.2899

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
these uncertainties of things so neere us and as yt were under our nose
, make me not wonder at the poore intelligence we have from abrode .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2900

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Poore Mistris Anne West is sicke indeed of the small pocks , so that yt
seemes misfortunes seldome come alone . CHAMBER,II,408.064.2901

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lady Rosse is said to be maried to a younge gentleman of small
meanes as beeing a younger brother . CHAMBER,II,408.064.2902

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I heare Dr. Burges tooke the same course yesterday with some widow
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2903

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I know not what she is . CHAMBER,II,408.064.2904

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The new Duches of Lennox takes state upon her <paren> they say </paren>
after the old manner , which is out of date long ago .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2905

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The terme of the great farme comes out now at Christmas ,
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2906

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I heare yt is taken again much about the old rate or rather more ,
by those that had yt before , saving that Master Abbotts and Master
Jacob are come in place of Sir ... Jones and Sir ... Salter .
CHAMBER,II,408.064.2907

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf you have not seene this ydle pamflet before , yt is like to make you
laugh though you had no list . CHAMBER,II,408.064.2908

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance <P_II,409> of my best service to my goode Lady
I commend you to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,II,409.064.2909

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this luckie 17=th= of November 1621 .
CHAMBER,II,409.064.2910

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:67
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:48
LETTER:CHAMBER_064:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,409.064.2911

<Q_CHM_A_1622_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_065> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,433>

{ED:406._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_27,_1622.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The Tewsday before Easter the earle of Oxford was
committed to the Towre and his minion Hawley to the Gatehouse , for
ydle and unfit speaches touching the King and his government :
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2912

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Lady Greasly <paren> in whose house yt happened </paren> , Master
Mewtas , Glover , and others were examined in the busines ,
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2913

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the prime accuser is saide to be one Damport that belonged to the
late Lord Chauncellor . CHAMBER,II,433.065.2914

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Captain Walsingham <paren> that had ben a pirate </paren> was sent to
the Towre about the same time , for beeing employed in the viage to
Argier , CHAMBER,II,433.065.2915

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yll satisfied for that service at his comming home , he began to
prattle of returning to his old occupation , and for that purpose of
surprising the Dread-naught one of the Kings ships .
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2916

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Robert Maunsell and the rest of that crew are nothing well apaide
neither , insomuch that Sir Richard Hawkins the vice-admirall , finding
his reckenings come short of that he expected , of meere greife and
discontent suncke downe before the Lords and died the next day .
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2917

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Master Hales did not preach at court this Lent as was apointed ,
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2918

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but desired to be spared , as pretending nothing but to live quietly ,
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2919

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore was willing to resigne his roome to some that had more
ambition to shew themselves , so that one Dr. Bates supplied the place
, who had the fortune to have the King present , which he had not ben
on a weeke day all the Lent long . CHAMBER,II,433.065.2920

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The tilting that shold have ben on Monday was by reason of wet weather
put of till Thursday , and then deferred till the 18=th= of the next
moneth and the second part of the maske till the for that the King was
sodainly taken with the gowte or some such infirmitie in his knee .
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2921

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Prince is nothing pleased with these delayes , <paren> yf yt could
be remedied , </paren> the rather for that now twise or thrise he had
all in redines , and <paren> as is saide </paren> was desirous to make
shew of the favor of a feather he had from his Spanish mistris .
CHAMBER,II,433.065.2922

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He was the last weeke at the Lady of Bedfords about the concluding of
<P_II,434> a match twixt the Lord Brus and her niece Mistris Chichester
. CHAMBER,II,434.065.2923

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Marquise Buckingam was churched on Thursday in the Kings chamber ,
where likewise she and the Duchesse of Lennox dined though the King
were in bed . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2924

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The contagion of her disease hath taken hold of Besse Shelton ,
CHAMBER,II,434.065.2925

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the old countesse hath not ben well these three or fowre dayes , so
that they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell what yt may prove .
CHAMBER,II,434.065.2926

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King sent lately a faire chaine of diamonds with his picture at yt
<paren> valued by jewellers at </paren> by the Prince and Lord Marques
to the Duchesse of Lennox for her great care and paines in making
broaths and caudells and such like for the Lady Marquise in her sicknes
so that the duches growes in great respect and is saide to be much
courted and respected by the Prince . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2927

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is one Knight committed for overreaching in a sermon at Oxford so
far as to say that yf kings grow unruly and tirannicall they may be
corrected and brought into order by theire subjects , which doctrine is
so extravagant that the King threatens to have the copie of yt
publikely burnt by the hangman as hereticall . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2928

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The emperors ambassador went away the last weeke with a present of a
chaine of diamonds of . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2929

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bishop of Spalato went with him in mal hora <paren> as the Italian
sayes </paren> yf I be not deceved . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2930

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Richard Weston went toward Brussells the other day , with imprest
as I heare , CHAMBER,II,434.065.2931

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Lord Chichester is to go the next weeke with allowance of sixe
pound per diem . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2932

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The barges go downe this day to Gravesend to bring up the new Spanish
ambassador . CHAMBER,II,434.065.2933

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare the commissioners are arrived in Ireland and that theire first
worke was to begin with the maior of Dublin : CHAMBER,II,434.065.2934

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Deputie is not within their reach , CHAMBER,II,434.065.2935

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but comes over presently to cleere himself here .
CHAMBER,II,434.065.2936

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
James Palmer is sworne of the bed-chamber in Master Wrayes roome , and
one Turpin in place of Kit Villers who is to be made a vicount , as
likewise Sir Tho: Beaumont who hath no great store of land left ,
CHAMBER,II,434.065.2937

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the King will supplie what is wanting to Villers .
CHAMBER,II,434.065.2938

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday I receved <P_II,435> yours of the 18=th= of this present ,
CHAMBER,II,435.065.2939

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for the gazettaes I looke not greatly after them seeing they come
but once in two or three moneths . CHAMBER,II,435.065.2940

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,435.065.2941

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 27=th= of April 1622 . CHAMBER,II,435.065.2942

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,435.065.2943

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_065:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,435.065.2944

<Q_CHM_A_1622_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_066> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,461>

{ED:417._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_4,_1622.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Harman calls for a letter CHAMBER,II,461.066.2945

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and here is nothing to write , unles I shold tell you of my Lord Maiors
pageants and shewes that had a very faire day among so many fowle both
before and after , that the wayes are saide to be almost impassable ,
and the waters so high <P_II,462> that yt is doubted how the King will
get well to Tiballs this day , whether the counsaile go to him to morow
morning , and such a deale of other busines there to be don as in so
short a time <paren> without extraordinarie dispatch </paren> can
hardly be digested . CHAMBER,II,462.066.2946

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Belfast hath ben here now these eight or ten dayes , and his
audience or relation deferred to the Kings comming to Tiballs .
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2947

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They say he is nothing well edified with the proceedings of the
Spaniards and imperialists with whom he hath had to deale , but will
plainly lay open how cunningly <paren> to say no worse </paren> they
have caried the busines , and with how litle respect to his Majesties
mediation : yf yt will do any goode . CHAMBER,II,462.066.2948

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time the Spanish match goes on amain , in the treating
whereof two principall articles are saide to be the restoring of the
Palatinat , on their part , and firme assurance to be geven on ours
from henceforth not to assist the Low-countries with men , monie , or
any other meanes . CHAMBER,II,462.066.2949

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is a great controversie fallen out twixt Sir Fraunces Vane and
the new Lord Montague his neighbour about countrie causes , and for
stiling him under his hand the grand promoter , which the Lord wold
bring within compasse of scandalum magnatum , and followes yt in the
Star-chamber : where Sir Fra: Vane was to aunswer as yt were ore tenus
on Wensday next , CHAMBER,II,462.066.2950

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but seeing himself so prest he hath found meanes that the King hath
taken yt into his owne handes , and caused them both to appeare before
him at Roiston as yesterday , where how the matter hath past we $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} heare yet , CHAMBER,II,462.066.2951

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt is most likely the King hath agreed them and made them frends .
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2952

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Privie Seale is in speach to be put to a goode pension during
his life and relinquish his place to the Lord Chamberlain , who is to
make roome for the Lord of Denbigh or Feilding ,
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2953

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but perhaps the matter is not so soone effected as spoken .
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2954

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dr. Searchfeild bishop of Bristow is lately dead ,
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2955

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but that place is held so poore , that we heare not yet of any suitors
or pretendants for yt . CHAMBER,II,462.066.2956

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Carleton is in towne in some perplexitie for feare of
beeing put into the bill of sheriffes , CHAMBER,II,462.066.2957

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and plies all his frends that can any way helpe to kepe him out .
CHAMBER,II,462.066.2958

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you <P_II,463> to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,II,463.066.2959

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 4=th= of November 1622 . CHAMBER,II,463.066.2960

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,463.066.2961

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:68
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:49
LETTER:CHAMBER_066:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,463.066.2962

<Q_CHM_A_1623_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_067> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,489>

{ED:428._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_19,_1623.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The King came hither the fifth of this present ,
CHAMBER,II,489.067.2963

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the next day <paren> beeing Palme-Sonday </paren> the Lord
Archbishop preached at court in the open preaching place , where there
had ben no sermons all this Lent , nor the King present at any till
then in the chappell , when the Lord Keper preached on Goode Friday ,
as likewise we had a very proper man one Oldsworth that day at Paules
Crosse , and on Easter Monday the master of the Savoy Belcanquel at the
Spittle , and Dr. Rawlinson and one Smith both Oxford men the two dayes
following , who all performed their part exceding well ,
CHAMBER,II,489.067.2964

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yf he that is to make the rehersall sermon to morow follow the same
steps , I have seldome knowne those places better furnished .
CHAMBER,II,489.067.2965

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King removed on Wensday to Hampton Court , on Thursday to Windsor
where he makes account to remain ten or eleven dayes .
CHAMBER,II,489.067.2966

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Provost of Eaton out-lived nine dayes , which is <P_II,490> counted
the fatall time for those that be cut of the stone ,
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2967

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but died two dayes after , when the canvasse for the place began afresh
, CHAMBER,II,490.067.2968

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir Robert Naunton laide in hard for yt , offering to quit all
pensions , promises and pretentions whatsoever :
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2969

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the King reserves that and all other matters of grace or favor till
the Lord of Buckingams returne : CHAMBER,II,490.067.2970

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet he hath renewed his promise to Sir William Beecher and sent letters
to the college not to proceed to any election till they knew his
further pleasure . CHAMBER,II,490.067.2971

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I hear underhand he is like to have a hard condition annexed , to
marrie the widow , or provide for her and her chickens .
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2972

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But for the more grace to the Lord of Buckingam in his absence , his
brother Kit Villers is presently to be made Baron of Daintrie and earle
of Anglesey with the indowment of land , old rent , and the guift of a
forest that is to be sold or inclosed , so that his lady and cousen is
like to be a worthie countesse . CHAMBER,II,490.067.2973

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir William St. John and Sir Henry Marvin <paren> that had the commaund
last sommer of two of the Kings shippes to conduct Monsieur Soubise to
Rochell </paren> have lost their places CHAMBER,II,490.067.2974

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and are committed , for wincking or geving way to his surprising of a
rich ship of Dunkirke , that brought treasure out of Spaine .
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2975

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Grimes gentleman of the horse to the Lord Marquis came thence about
Sonday was sevenight with welcome newes of the Princes health and
welfare , and that matters are so forward there that the Prince desires
his Majestie to hasten the sending of the fleet ,
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2976

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he hopes to be with his Lady Infanta at the sea-side before yt
arrive : CHAMBER,II,490.067.2977

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet in the meane time the sending for his armes and tilting horse ,
make men doubt all $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be well don so soone :
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2978

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they are shipt here alredy CHAMBER,II,490.067.2979

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the wind that shold carrie them away kepes them in the river ,
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2980

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and most men thincke they are like to serve to litle use after so long
lieng on shipboard , and so long a journy by land from the sea side to
Madrid , together with so great chaunge of aire and diet and the heat
of the yeare comming on , wherby yt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} nothing fit
neither for his highnes to use so violent an exercise .
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2981

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But that which makes men suspect most of all that matters are not so
current is that we heare the Marquis of Inojosa your old acquaintance
is comming hither ambassador , and is to set out thence the first of
their May , or rather <paren> as the Spanish ambassador here geves out
</paren> the tenth . CHAMBER,II,490.067.2982

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The dispensation is not come neither , CHAMBER,II,490.067.2983

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they say the Duke of Pastrana is sent to Rome to hasten yt ,
CHAMBER,II,490.067.2984

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he goes in a litter <P_II,491> as is geven out .
CHAMBER,II,491.067.2985

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Kensington , Sir George Goring , young Montague and I know not
how many more are gon for Spaine in severall troupes ,
CHAMBER,II,491.067.2986

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I heard the Lord had to beare his charges , as likewise that Grimes
is dispatcht thether again , with a for his paines and expence , and a
pension of for his life : or as some say the customes of Carlile .
CHAMBER,II,491.067.2987

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Fraunces Steward is going for Spaine with one of the Kings ships
and a pinnesse to bring home the Lord Marquis presently .
CHAMBER,II,491.067.2988

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Wentworth is gon with him in companie , who is lately become a
Romish Catholike forsoth as likewise the Lord Vaughan the Princes
controller who never discovered himself till now ,
CHAMBER,II,491.067.2989

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is like at the Infantaes comming we shall have many more fall
away as fast as withered leaves in autumne : CHAMBER,II,491.067.2990

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but we heare the Prince hath geven order that he and all his regiment
or retinue below the staires <paren> as they call yt </paren> upon
their arrivall in Spaine shall returne backe , because they shold not
pester the court nor countrie where provisions are scant enough for
those that be there alredy , insomuch that yt is saide the chaplains
and furniture for the chappell shall either return or tarrie at sea
side . CHAMBER,II,491.067.2991

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Some whispering here is that the comming of the ambassador is about a
treatie or meeting at Brussells for the compounding of the busines of
the Palatinat and all other differences now on foot in Christendome ,
which meeting shold have ben here but for favoring the Kings purse that
he might have seene their reall proceeding : CHAMBER,II,491.067.2992

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yf the mariage be not perfected till that busines be ended , God
knowes when we may expect {REMOVE:check_text} th Prince , unles he grow
impatient of so long delay . CHAMBER,II,491.067.2993

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And the fleet may be redy all in goode time though yt shold stay a
moneth or two longer . CHAMBER,II,491.067.2994

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Rutland is declared admirall of yt , the Lord Windsor
viceadmirall , and the Lord Morley reareadmirall , all of the same
stampe . CHAMBER,II,491.067.2995

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But let men thincke and talke what they will , CHAMBER,II,491.067.2996

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the King knowes more then we all who is very confident of the successe
, and joyes much to talke of the Princes journy and all the accidents
by the way , wherof he was fully informed by Grimes , and how many
falles they had , the Lord Marques seven , Sir Fra: Cottington twelve
and so of the rest , CHAMBER,II,491.067.2997

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only the Prince had never a one . CHAMBER,II,491.067.2998

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I spake with one lately that on Tewsday heard the King relate the whole
storie ab ovo from point to point with great contentment and of the
honors don him in Spaine : CHAMBER,II,491.067.2999

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but by that relation I gather pregnant <P_II,492> arguments to mine
owne judgement that he went not unknowne in the court of Fraunce but
that they dissembled their knowlege : CHAMBER,II,492.067.3000

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
we looke dayly for fresh newes from them CHAMBER,II,492.067.3001

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the King thinks every day ten till yt come .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3002

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Goode Friday Sir Thomas Lowe was prayed for at Paules Crosse ,
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3003

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and died that evening . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3004

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He was buried privatly on Tewsday night though there were a great deale
of companie , CHAMBER,II,492.067.3005

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir John Bennet with much ado got leave to be there .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3006

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord of Bridgewaters only sonne died yesterday ,
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3007

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but there is hope left seeing his lady is with child and redy to lie
downe . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3008

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Tewsday there was a fowle barbarous murther committed in
Lombardstreet by a prentise upon two of his mistris children of sixe or
seven yeares old by cutting their throats CHAMBER,II,492.067.3009

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then hanged himself . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3010

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The reason is saide to be some devilish revenge for yll usage .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3011

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Oxford lies still by yt CHAMBER,II,492.067.3012

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so is like to do till either-1 the Lord of Buckingam come or send :
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3013

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is a mariage treating <paren> or rather a contract of a yeare old
or more as some say </paren> twixt him and the Lady Diana Cecill with
whom he is to have in monie and land presently , and land a yeare more
after her fathers decease . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3014

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is a great faction fallen out in the Virginia companie .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3015

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The heades of the one side are the earle of Southampton , the Lord
Candish , Sir Ed: Sackvile , Sir John Ogle , Sir Edw. Sandes with
divers other of meaner qualitie : CHAMBER,II,492.067.3016

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
on the other side are the earle of Warwicke , Sir Thomas Smith , Sir
Nathaniell Rich , Sir Henry Mildmay , alderman Johnson and many more .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3017

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Monday they were before the King with their accusations and
allegations , where Sir Ed Sackvile caried himself so malapertly and
insolently that the King was faine to take him downe soundly and
roundly , CHAMBER,II,492.067.3018

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I heare that by meanes of the Lord Treasurer he made his peace the
next day . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3019

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Provostship of Eaton seemes not to be so assured to Sir William
Beecher , but that there is still some nibling at yt ,
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3020

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir Robert Eaton a Scott is in as faire possibilitie as any of the
rest as I have learned very lately . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3021

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3022

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 19=th= of Aprill 1623 . CHAMBER,II,492.067.3023

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_067:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,492.067.3024

<Q_CHM_A_1623_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_068> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,520>

{ED:439._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_8,_1623.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : The next day after I wrote last here fell out a
pittifull accident in the Blacke Friers , where the papists had hired a
house next to the French ambassadors <paren> that so they might be as
yt were under his protection </paren> to hold their assemblies , say
masse , meet at sermons , and performe all other their exercises and
rites after the Romish manner : CHAMBER,II,520.068.3025

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
a great multitude beeing met there on the 26=th= of the last moneth to
heare father Drurie a famous Jesuite among them preach in an upper
roome , the floore suncke under them , CHAMBER,II,520.068.3026

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or rather the beames and joysts not able to beare the weight brake in
the midst , beeing otherwise found upon search and view no way faultie
or rotton but strong and sound . CHAMBER,II,520.068.3027

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many perished partly battered and bruised , CHAMBER,II,520.068.3028

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but most part smothered , CHAMBER,II,520.068.3029

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the first floore fell with such violence that yt brake downe a
second under yt , though the walles and roofe stirred not but stand
firme . CHAMBER,II,520.068.3030

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Besides father Drurie and one Riddiat another Jesuite the Lady Webbe
<paren> sister to Sir Lewes Tresham , </paren> Mistris Sommers and some
few young gentlewomen , we heare of none but meane people , to the
number of 95 or thereabout , though some speake of more ,
CHAMBER,II,520.068.3031

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for in the first confusion many were conveyed away by their frends and
saide to be concealed : CHAMBER,II,520.068.3032

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yf the day had not ben so very fowle , many greater persons had ben
taken in the trappe , CHAMBER,II,520.068.3033

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but God provided better for them , though the papists geve out yt was a
great blessing for them that perished , because their dieng in this
manner is a supersedeas from Purgatorie and that they are gon directly
to heaven , CHAMBER,II,520.068.3034

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and their priests will not allow yt to be called or thought a judgement
, but only a worke of God . CHAMBER,II,520.068.3035

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
A number were hurt , maymed , and lost their limmes which found litle
helpe or comfort at first , our people beeing growne so sauvage and
barbarous that they refused to assist them with drincke , aqua vitae ,
or any other cordialls in their necessitie , but rather insulted upon
them with taunts and gibes in their affliction as they were caried away
all that evening and the night following , <paren> for the mischaunce
<P_II,521> fell about fowre a clocke in the afternoone about the middle
of their sermon </paren> CHAMBER,II,521.068.3036

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and even in Cheapside where they shold be more civill , they were redy
to pull and teare them out of the coaches as they passed to their
lodgings or to the surgeans , CHAMBER,II,521.068.3037

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but there was as goode order taken as might be on the sodain , to
represse the insolencie and inhumanitie of the multitude , and for
reliefe of the distressed . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3038

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The next day toward evening all that were left to the number of and
odde were buried in two pitts made in the court and garden of the house
, where that night were two blacke crosses erected but taken away by
order from the counsaile a day or two after . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3039

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard the Lady Webbe was buried with great solemnitie at the Spanish
ambassadors in Elie House chappell , the rest in other churches as
their frends could procure . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3040

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We looke for some relation of this mishap in print ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3041

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there was one two dayes since but presently called in again
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3042

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for what reason I know not . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3043

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Much discoursing here is of all the circumstances belonging to the
busines . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3044

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Some descant much of the day beeing their fifth of November ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3045

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in my judgment nothing is more remarkeable then that this was the
first so solemne assemblie of theirs , that I have knowne or heard of
in England these threescore yeares and more : and wherby you may see
how bold and forward they are upon a litle connivence ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3046

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet yt shold seeme they have better assurance then we are aware of
, as you may perceve by this inclosed paper which is yet but in few
hands , and was once at the great seale redy to be signed ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3047

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
howsoever yt was put of for a time . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3048

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I commend our preachers cariage in this accident ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3049

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for generally they do not dilate nor aggravate yt very much ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3050

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and for those that I have heard yf they touch yt at all , they do yt
temperatly and charitablie . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3051

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French ambassador though this mischaunce was so neere him had no
manner of losse nor any of his people . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3052

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He himself was not at home when yt fell out beeing gon to visit the
Venetian ambassador , CHAMBER,II,521.068.3053

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and upon the newes removed his lodging to the earle of Marches in
Drurie Lane wher he yet continues for ought I heare .
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3054

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The court could not come hitherward at Hallowtide , by reason yt was
beset with waters at Hinching-brooke by Huntington ,
CHAMBER,II,521.068.3055

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and withall the King was overtaken with the gowte or paine in his arme
so that he could not remove . CHAMBER,II,521.068.3056

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Prince with the Duke of Buckingam and Secretarie Conway <P_II,522>
came hither the of the last moneth . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3057

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The next day was a meeting of certain selected counsaillors at St.
James , where the Lord of Buckingam made relation in what state they
found the busines of the match at their comming into Spaine and in what
state they left yt . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3058

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The next day he and Master Secretarie went backe to the King having
left no body with him but the earle of Southampton who is in very goode
grace and favor of late . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3059

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is saide the King came yesterday to Tiballs CHAMBER,II,522.068.3060

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thether the Prince and all the great Lords about this towne went to
meet him . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3061

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is thought he will pricke the sheriffes to morow , and give audience
to the Spanish ambassador that came along with the Prince who hath
murmured and mutined that he is deferred so long .
CHAMBER,II,522.068.3062

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt is like the archduchesses ambassador Don Diego Mexia shall likewise
have audience who came on Monday very well accompanied with a sort of
proper and gallant men and in goode equipage . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3063

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He lodgeth at Excester House with the other Spanish ambassadors and
defrayed by the King for twelve dayes , as yt seemes order is taken for
hereafter . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3064

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They may easilie perceve how welcome they are to our people ,
CHAMBER,II,522.068.3065

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the 5th of this moneth bonfires were made thicke in the Strand even
to their gates . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3066

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The speach of the Spanish match growes daylie more coole ,
CHAMBER,II,522.068.3067

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and now we begin to have a fresh alarme of another as far of as Vienna
. CHAMBER,II,522.068.3068

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The daunger of the Princes journy into Spaine is dayly apprehended more
then yt was at first , insomuch that even wise men mervaile how he got
so easilie thence , CHAMBER,II,522.068.3069

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the conclusion is that <paren> as a great man congratulating his
return told him </paren> he might thancke God he was come safe , and he
might thancke his sister too . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3070

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The old Lady of Shrewsburie is delivered out of the Towre and confined
to continue with the bishop of Bath and Wells . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3071

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I forgot in my former the decease of two auncient noblemen the earle of
Kent and the Lord Sands . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3072

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The younger of them was not far from fowrescore . As likewise that
Signor Biondi is knighted and hath made a laide Lady .
CHAMBER,II,522.068.3073

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare the King meanes to be here about Wensday , and that there be
some stirres and troubles raised in Ireland . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3074

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dieston left your letter of the 21=th= of the last here on Sonday
CHAMBER,II,522.068.3075

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have not yet seen him . CHAMBER,II,522.068.3076

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
<P_II,523> you to the protection of the Almighty .
CHAMBER,II,523.068.3077

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 8=th= of November 1623 . CHAMBER,II,523.068.3078

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,523.068.3079

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:69
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:50
LETTER:CHAMBER_068:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,523.068.3080

<Q_CHM_A_1624_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_069> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,554>

{ED:450._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_April_30,_1624.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : I have ben somwhat slacke of late as well by
reason of my busines , as that you are otherwise so well provided at
this present CHAMBER,II,554.069.3081

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} complaine of want of matter but rather
that inopem me copia fecit . CHAMBER,II,554.069.3082

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke of Richmonds funeralles were performed with great charge the
19=th= of this moneth , CHAMBER,II,554.069.3083

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for there were about a thousand mourners one and other , besides sixe
or eight horses covered all with velvet , and his picture or figure
drawne in a coach by sixe horses clad in like manner , and his herse at
Westminster <paren> that stands yet </paren> equall in all points
<paren> or rather more elevated </paren> then Quene Annes :
CHAMBER,II,554.069.3084

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
divers noble men refused some offices or services they were apointed to
, as esteeming them unfit for him or themselves .
CHAMBER,II,554.069.3085

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In effect I have not heard of such a titularie prince and a subject ,
so magnificently enterred . CHAMBER,II,554.069.3086

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord Keper preached CHAMBER,II,554.069.3087

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and gave him his full commendation for mildnes and many other vertues .
CHAMBER,II,554.069.3088

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke of Lennox is chosen knight of the garter in his <P_II,555>
brothers place , CHAMBER,II,555.069.3089

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was installed at Windsor where the King kept St. Georges feast on
Tewsday last . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3090

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Clanrikard is created Vicount Tunbrige and receved into
the parlement as an English baron . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3091

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This weeke the only sonne and child of the Lord Darcie of the north
died here of the small pockes beeing a burgesse of the parlement , a
very proper and hopefull younge gentleman of some 22 yeares ,
CHAMBER,II,555.069.3092

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was shortly to marrie Sir Fraunces Vanes daughter a daintie
gentlewoman in all respects . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3093

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The parlement holdes on very orderly CHAMBER,II,555.069.3094

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there is hope yt will end so , though peradventure not so soone as
was expected CHAMBER,II,555.069.3095

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for there remaines much to be don about continuance of statutes and
such like . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3096

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King wrote a letter yesterday to the lower house , to rid them of a
thornie busines touching Virginia and the Summer Ylands , which was
like enough to have bred much faction and distraction among them ,
beeing followed on both sides with much eagernes and animositie , which
to prevent the King hath resumed and reserved the whole cause to his
owne hearing , which is the best course could have ben taken , and no
doubt most pleasing to the major part . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3097

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The upper house intends wholy to the Lord Treasurers busines , who
labours on all sides very diligently and leaves no stone unturned that
may any way serve his turne . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3098

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For a fortnight together he had often accesse to his Majestie and much
private conference , by the meanes <paren> as is said </paren> of the
Lords of Kelly , Holdernes , and Annan : CHAMBER,II,555.069.3099

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Saterday last was long with the King before he was up :
CHAMBER,II,555.069.3100

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but that afternoone he receved a message by the Prince , not to come in
the Kings presence any more till he have cleered himself .
CHAMBER,II,555.069.3101

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Many fowle matters come upon him daylie , CHAMBER,II,555.069.3102

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he continues his wonted confidence CHAMBER,II,555.069.3103

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and makes shew to blow them away with a breath , which me thinckes
shold argue multum innocentiae aut multum impudentiae
CHAMBER,II,555.069.3104

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I rather incline to the later , for that many of his accusers were
his bosome frends , and so conscii and perhaps partakers in all his
courses . CHAMBER,II,555.069.3105

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He importunes the upper house with continuall petitions , that he may
aunswer by his counsaile , that he may examine his witnesses , and
minister crosse interrogatories to his accusers , and all other wayes
to win time , CHAMBER,II,555.069.3106

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for never hare neere her end made so many doubles as he devises tricks
to prolong the busines knowing the proverb that chi ha tempo ha vita ,
by which meanes he hath gotten leave to have counsaile to advise
withall , but not to plead for him , CHAMBER,II,555.069.3107

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he hath chosen Nicolas Hide and Master Hackewell ,
CHAMBER,II,555.069.3108

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and <P_II,556> wheras his day to aunswer shold have ben as yesterday he
hath got yt delayed till to morow for his first aunswer and Friday for
the last . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3109

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But though there be matter enough and enough to presse him downe , yet
yf he be guiltie of one thing wherof he is vehemently suspected I dare
read his destinie <paren> as well as the Lady Jacob </paren> without
looking in his hand . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3110

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Howsoever yt be , for all his high lookes I heare he is much dejected
at home , and doth underhand sgombrare , and convay all his short ends
as handsomly as he can . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3111

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Count Mansfeld was here extraordinarilie entertained and defrayed at
the Princes charge . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3112

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He went away on Sonday after dinner to Rochester where he stayed a
goode part of the next day to see the ships at Chattam ,
CHAMBER,II,556.069.3113

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so tooke sea at Dover on Wensday morning for Boloigna , whether he
had as faire and short a passage as hath ben knowne , beeing attended
and defrayed by the Princes officers to the sea side and beeing well
seene and generally respected here carieng with him all manner of
contentment and many presents as a jewell of from the King , a ring
with a diamond of and a faire coach with sixe horses from the Prince
besides others : CHAMBER,II,556.069.3114

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but that which most galled the Spaniards and which they take for the
greatest affront was , that he was lodged at St. James in the lodgings
apointed for the Infanta . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3115

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not take upon me to tell you his negotiation , nor with what
conditions he parted , because I am sure you know them better then
myself . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3116

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I only wish matters so well projected may be thoroughly followed ,
CHAMBER,II,556.069.3117

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I feare our naturall biais will lead us awrie , or at least to do
things by halfes which is the way to marre all ,
CHAMBER,II,556.069.3118

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have some reason to mistrust the worst , as well by former
courses , as to see faire promises so lately made , so litle performed
. CHAMBER,II,556.069.3119

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here was expectation of a proclamation to come foorth this weeke
against priests and Jesuites , CHAMBER,II,556.069.3120

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yt stickes , CHAMBER,II,556.069.3121

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and we heare no more of yt , though yt be more then time , when they
swarme so thicke in every corner , that friers , Jesuites , and priests
are certainly knowne and discovered in the land , whatsoever there be
more . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3122

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The earle of Bristowe is saide to be arrived , CHAMBER,II,556.069.3123

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was expected here last night . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3124

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The voyce goes he bringes all the jewells backe , with many great
shewes and offers of all manner of satisfaction , and that the Infanta
forsoth mournes . CHAMBER,II,556.069.3125

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Upon the Kings declaration this day sevenight to the parlements
petition , I doubt not but you have , or shall heare from a better hand
what a bold part the Spanish ambassador hath plaid in accusing
<P_II,557> the Prince , the Lord of Buckingam , and some of both houses
of plotting to confine the King yf he had not yeelded to that request :
CHAMBER,II,557.069.3126

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
thus runs the generall voyce , CHAMBER,II,557.069.3127

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and we say they take yt to heart and will require reparation of the
wrong , seeking both-1 from common lawiers and civilians , from Sir
Robert Cotton and other antiquaries for precedents what hath or may be
don in like cases , CHAMBER,II,557.069.3128

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but when all is saide and don , I am of opinion we $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} nothing sensible of any disgrace or dishonor that may
fall upon us from the Spaniard whom we respect and stand in awe of so
much either-3 for love or feare . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3129

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
John West recommended letters the last weeke to my conveyance ,
CHAMBER,II,557.069.3130

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and intreated me to remember his service and thanckfull acknowlegement
to your Lordship and my Lady for your favors and kindnes shewed to his
nephew in his sicknes and distresse . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3131

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In truth you could not have bestowed any favor upon a more thanckfull
person then John West , who doth publish your bountie upon all
occasions , and no doubt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} redy to deserve yt by
all goode meanes and indeavours . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3132

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
As I was writing this letter Harman brought me yours of the 23=th= of
this present from your nephew Dudley . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3133

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have scant leysure to read yt over , CHAMBER,II,557.069.3134

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore will deferr the aunswer <paren> yf there be need </paren>
till the next . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3135

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3136

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this last of Aprill 1624 . CHAMBER,II,557.069.3137

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_069:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,557.069.3138

<Q_CHM_A_1624_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_070> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,586>

{ED:461._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_November_6,_1624.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : We had newes here yesterday that the Kings ship
that was to bring over Count Mansfeld was cast away at Flushing , and
all that were in her lost save himself and two pages escaped in his
doublet and hose and is come in a pincke to Margat :
CHAMBER,II,586.070.3139

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this were a bad beginning yf yt be true . CHAMBER,II,586.070.3140

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God send us better hereafter . CHAMBER,II,586.070.3141

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The letters to the Lieutenants to presse men for his employment were
signed with some difficultie the last weeke , but not yet put in
practise : CHAMBER,II,586.070.3142

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor perhaps will not be in haste , yf the bruit be true that the French
king is backward in the busines , which seemes somwhat straunge that
they who have so long and by so many meanes sought to set us on ,
should now draw backe when they find us so forward .
CHAMBER,II,586.070.3143

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet the match we say proceedes , CHAMBER,II,586.070.3144

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Duke of Buckingam talkes of going shortly into Fraunce
CHAMBER,II,586.070.3145

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and bespeakes followers in great number . CHAMBER,II,586.070.3146

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is a French archbishop or as some call him a Deane , others a
President of Tholouse negotiating at court about matters of religion as
is supposed , which belike are not yet setled as they should be .
CHAMBER,II,586.070.3147

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke of Buckingam came to towne on Tewsday with purpose <P_II,587>
to say here till Monday , CHAMBER,II,587.070.3148

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the next day he was sent for in all post CHAMBER,II,587.070.3149

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and went away at fowre a clocke in the afternoone toward Roiston .
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3150

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The reason of this haste some geve out to be the arrivall of letters
out of Fraunce with matter of great consequence .
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3151

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest of the counsaile went the day after to the pricking of
sheriffes , which is to be don before the Kings going from Roiston to
Newmarket which was apointed this day . CHAMBER,II,587.070.3152

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Hercules Undrill is formost in the bill for Warwickshire .
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3153

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We are in a way to have new nobilitie . CHAMBER,II,587.070.3154

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Fraunces Leake of Darbishire is alredy made baron of Dancourt ,
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3155

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and we speake of three or fowre earles , CHAMBER,II,587.070.3156

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Lord Hollis hath got the start CHAMBER,II,587.070.3157

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is made earle of Clare CHAMBER,II,587.070.3158

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was present in that habit with the other Lords the second of this
moneth at the prorogation of the parlement , while the waxe of his
patent was yet warme beeing sealed but that morning :
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3159

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this forwardnes of his in getting the precedence may hinder the market
and make the rest more backward that were comming on apace , as they
name the Lord of Wallingford for Berkeshire , Sir Fraunces Fane for
Glocester , and some others . CHAMBER,II,587.070.3160

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Treasurers place is not yet disposed of CHAMBER,II,587.070.3161

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet the voice runs still with the Lord Cheif Justice and the Solicitor
Sir ... Heath to be his successor : CHAMBER,II,587.070.3162

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the Secretaries place is likewise in question , and generally geven to
one whom I love and honor so much that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} wish
yt him on such conditions and rebus sic stantibus .
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3163

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your brother Carleton is in towne and your nephew with his Lady who
begins to burnish well in every part but before , as far as can be
perceved . CHAMBER,II,587.070.3164

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Thomas Barrington maried the Lady Smith some ten dayes since very
privatly at Bow-church . CHAMBER,II,587.070.3165

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope yt will prove a happy match , CHAMBER,II,587.070.3166

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and are like to live well and lovingly together ;
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3167

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
at all adventures I wold her sister Jane were no worse bestowed .
CHAMBER,II,587.070.3168

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dr. Belcanquell hath maried the Lady Hammond a Kentish woman who is not
so young but that she hath children <P_II,588> maried .
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3169

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is to be Deane of Rochester in place of Dr. Goodman who is to
succeed the bishop of Glocester lately deceased .
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3170

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Albertus Morton Lord elect for Fraunce hath had a shrewd mischaunce
, CHAMBER,II,588.070.3171

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for expecting his mistris the last easterly wind , he posted to
Gravesend to entertain and bid her welcome , CHAMBER,II,588.070.3172

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but his horse and he falling by the way , he hath so bruised his face
and his head that they were faine to let him bloud twise
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3173

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is yet under the chirurgions handes . CHAMBER,II,588.070.3174

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our bill this weeke is 264 almost fifty lesse then the last .
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3175

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare the presse for Mansfeld began last night in the suburbs of this
towne upon vagrant and idle people . CHAMBER,II,588.070.3176

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,588.070.3177

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 6=th= of November 1624 . CHAMBER,II,588.070.3178

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3179

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:70
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:51
LETTER:CHAMBER_070:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton knight Lord Ambassador for
his Majestie with the States of the United Provinces at the Hagh .
CHAMBER,II,588.070.3180

<Q_CHM_A_1625_TC_JCHAMBERLAIN> <L_CHAMBER_071> <A_JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1554> <R_DUDLEY_CARLETON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1573>

<P_II,614>

{ED:472._TO_SIR_DUDLEY_CARLETON.}

{ED:London,_May_6,_1625.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My very goode Lord : Comming in somwhat late I understand that Master
Nicolls is upon his dispatch CHAMBER,II,614.071.3181

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though he know much more then myself how all goes at court , yet I
will not omit to tell what is stirring in city and countrie .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3182

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The great funerall apointed for Tewsday next , was abriged
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3183

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and shold have ben yesterday , CHAMBER,II,614.071.3184

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the time was so short that of necessitie yt is put of till to morow
. CHAMBER,II,614.071.3185

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The fiancialles were performed on Thursday beeing their Ascension , and
the mariage on Sonday last our May day . CHAMBER,II,614.071.3186

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We had notice of the former on Saterday night CHAMBER,II,614.071.3187

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and on Wensday evening we had bells and bonfires in aboundance upon
newes of the later . CHAMBER,II,614.071.3188

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The bride is to be set forward on Thursday next .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3189

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King bringes her to Amiens , the Quene regnant and Quene mother to
Bollein , where yt is thought our king will meet and receve her at
theire hand . CHAMBER,II,614.071.3190

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We heare the solemnitie was not don till yt was very late by reason of
controversie and concurrence among divers great ones for place and
precedence . CHAMBER,II,614.071.3191

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is great preparation for shewes and pageants ,
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3192

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet yt is thought the coronation will not be till October , specially
yf the sicknes increase , which yet <paren> God be thancked </paren> is
not very outragious there dieng this weeke 292 ; of the plague more by
fowre then the last bill , and lesse by 13 in the whole number .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3193

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The terme is begun CHAMBER,II,614.071.3194

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is though the parliament will hold the 17=th= of this moneth
though perhaps not to sit long . CHAMBER,II,614.071.3195

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yt was once set downe the coronation should have ben the day before the
parlement , and then the terme to have ben kept at Durham House in
respect that Westminster Hall must be trimmed up for the feast .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3196

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here hath ben much canvassing for places in parlement .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3197

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir John Francklin and Sir Gilbert Gerrard caried yt away in Middlesex
from Master Controller though he were present , which was thought not
so wise a part for a privie counsaillor to take the foyle in person .
CHAMBER,II,614.071.3198

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Fraunces Knolles and young Duns are for Berkshire , Sir John Butler
and John Butler <paren> that hath maried Sir Richard Spensers daughter
</paren> for Hertfordshire , Sir Fraunces Barrington and Sir Arthur
Harris for Essex , <P_II,615> the young Lord Burwais <paren> the Lord
of Westmerlands sonne </paren> and Secretarie Morton for Kent : where
Sir Edwin Sandes and one Scot stoode mainly for yt and made account to
carie yt , but finding the adverse partie strong made an oration or
speach none of the wisest as yt is reported , CHAMBER,II,615.071.3199

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but for all his haranguing he lost the day , though he cavilled much at
the sheriffe as partiall , whereas yt is verefied there were at least
three to one against him , so that Sir Dudley Digges may say nunc sumus
ergo pares , for the like tricke he served him the last election .
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3200

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Wotton stoode to be burgesse for Caunterburie ,
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3201

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but for all the frends he could make and though he spent almost fiftie
pound in goode drincke upon his followers , yet one Captain Fisher a
muster-master won yt from him . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3202

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yf I had ben as Secretarie Morton I should have estemed as much the
choise of the universitie of Cambrige <paren> where he was elected
</paren> as this higher title in shew with the expence of two or three
hundred pound they say at least . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3203

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But he is now in a faire way of thriving , the King having this last
weeke bestowed upon him a yeare pension during his life .
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3204

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord of Andover is to have in lieu of his mastership of the horse
besides beeing to be made an earle and a privie counsaillor as the
voyce goes . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3205

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
These and such like large allowances , do somwhat deminish the opinion
conceved of the Kings goode husbandrie . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3206

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray God we take yt not too high at first , CHAMBER,II,615.071.3207

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for then we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} hold . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3208

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Here is a French ambassador come to condole . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3209

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Some say he is a marques I know not whence , some say a captain of the
guard . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3210

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He had audience on Wensday performed in very goode fashion on all sides
. CHAMBER,II,615.071.3211

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke of Buckingam was never in greater favor
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3212

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and all thinges passe by him . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3213

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Sonday was sevenight Sir Thomas Glover comming from court with a
message to the chiaus of Argier , before he had spoken two wordes fell
downe starke dead , CHAMBER,II,615.071.3214

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was so poore that the Turkie companie was faine to be at charge to
burie him . CHAMBER,II,615.071.3215

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Lord cheife baron Tanfield died on Saturday ,
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3216

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yt is thought Sir John Walter shall succeed him :
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3217

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Sir Thomas Trevor no great lawier made a baron of the exchecquer .
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3218

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sir Henry Yelvertons lady died this day sevenight
CHAMBER,II,615.071.3219

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and within two <P_II,616> dayes he had a message from the Duke that he
was to be made a judge of the common pleas . CHAMBER,II,616.071.3220

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So with the remembrance of my best service to my goode Lady I commend
you to the protection of the Almighty . CHAMBER,II,616.071.3221

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From London this 6=th= of May 1625 . CHAMBER,II,616.071.3222

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your Lordships most assuredly at commaund John Chamberlain .
CHAMBER,II,616.071.3223

AUTHOR:JOHN_CHAMBERLAIN:MALE:FRIEND:1554:71
RECIPIENT:DUDLEY_CARLETON:MALE:FRIEND:1573:52
LETTER:CHAMBER_071:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To the right honorable Sir Dudley Carleton Lord Ambassador for his
Majestie at the Hagh . CHAMBER,II,616.071.3224
