<B_CLIFFO>

<Q_CLI_C_1490S_T_HENRY7> <L_CLIFFO_001> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1454>

<P_31>

{ED:1_VII_TO_THE_TENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_7_AUGUST_[1494_X_1500].}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and welbeloved the lord Clifford . CLIFFO,31.001.1

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
H {ED:enricus} R {ED:ex} By the Kinge CLIFFO,31.001.2

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloved wee greet yow wele , CLIFFO,31.001.3

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
and have understanden your lettre at length written at Skipton the of
July , CLIFFO,31.001.4

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
and have perceyved thereby and otherwise the misbehavings on eyther
side betweene the bishopp of Duresme our privy seale and yow : for the
which yee may be well assured wee be nothing contented nor pleased with
yow nor him . CLIFFO,31.001.5

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
And for a restfullnes to be had in this cause , and in avoyding diverse
other inconveniencyes , wee have commaunded our said privy seale for to
cease forthwith of any further process or execucion against you upon
endytement , citacion or otherwise , but to putt all things in respite
unto crastinum animarum coming . And in the meane season to keepe our
peace and to deliver forthwith upon suerty your servauntes and tenantes
out of prison to theire liberty for to appeare before us and our
counsaile at the said day to annswere unto all that he shall then lay
against them . Wherefore wee will and straightly charge yow that ye for
your part neyther doe nor attempt any manner of thinge against the said
bishopp , his servantes or tenantes by way of fact , assembling of our
people , affraies or any other willfull dealing , but inviolably to
keepe our peace for yow and all yours , and to lett all things
depending betweene yow and him to rest as they now be unto the said
crastinum animarum upon the perill that may ensue . CLIFFO,31.001.6

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
And then wee shall provide with the leave of our Lord soe as yee shall
have all that right requireth in that behalfe . CLIFFO,31.001.7

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_001:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Yeoven under our signet at the mannor of Farlborn the 7th day of August
. CLIFFO,31.001.8

<Q_CLI_C_1517_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_002> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1454>

<P_32>

{ED:2_HENRY_VIII_TO_THE_TENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_3_MAY_[1517].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and welbeloved the lord Clifforde .
CLIFFO,32.002.9

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,32.002.10

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
Trustie and welbeloved wee greete you well . CLIFFO,32.002.11

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
Soe it is upon the Even of Phillip and Jacob last paste <em> April
</em> a great number of insolent prentices and malicious jorneymen of
theire sensuall appetites and rancorous disposition against aliens and
strangers , artificers and others inhabited within our citty of London
soddenly assembled themselves withein our said citty in the night time
under colour of mayeinge , <P_33> breakeinge upp , entringe and
robbinge the houses of certaine French and Dutch men , makeinge also
greate comminations to other strangers the mervellous inquiete and
commotion of our said citty and disturbance of our peace within the
same . CLIFFO,33.002.12

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
And albeit the insolent and rebellous assemble , by our citty sheriffs
and other substantiall and well disposed cittizens with and by the
policies , powers and assistance of the noblemen and others of our
counsell , was not onely furthwith repressed and pacified , but also a
greate number of the malefactors and offenders taken and accordinge to
our lawes and theire demerittes openly convicted and put to execution
so that it is now thorowly pacified and put in quietnes <paren> our
Lord be thanked </paren> . Yet wee thought right expedient t'advertise
you thereof aswell for the declaracion of the truth in puttinge all
sinister and seditious brutes to silence if any such $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} made by indisposed personns as also that yee by your
wisdome should not onely forsee and have good espiall in the places and
country neere adjoyninge to you to know the disposition of our
subjectes if upon untrue reportes they should be stirred to any
semblable commotions by perverse counsaill either against marchantes ,
strangers or for any other grownde or cause , but also by your wisedome
and power with thassistance of other our faithfull servantes and
subjectes in those partes furwith to represse the same by takeing
aswell the principall moveres and stirrers thereof as also the
offenders accompaninge them for such unlawfull ententes and purpose ,
comittinge them to warde and also advertiseinge us thereof with all
speedy diligence as our speciall trust is in you and as yee entend to
do unto us acceptable pleasure and service to bee remembred hereafter
accordingly . CLIFFO,33.002.13

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:63
LETTER:CLIFFO_002:E1:1517:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our sigenett att our mannor of Richmonte the third day of
May . CLIFFO,33.002.14

<Q_CLI_C_1520_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_003> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1454>

<P_34>

{ED:3_HENRY_VIII_TO_THE_TENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_18_MAY_[1520].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and welbeloved the lord Clifforde .
CLIFFO,34.003.15

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,34.003.16

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and welbeloved wee greete you well . CLIFFO,34.003.17

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
And where as wee at this time have written aswell to the sheriffe of
that our shire <paren> as shall appeare unto $you by the coppie of the
same writtinge here inclosed </paren> as also to the justices of our
peace within our said shire whereof yee bee one <paren> as in likewise
shall appeare to you by our lettres to you and them addressed </paren>
, comaundinge and straitly chargeinge that as well the said sheriffe as
the said justices endeavor them for the keepinge of our peace and
entertainment of our subjectes in good quiet and restfullnes dureinge
the time of our jorney into the partes beyonde the sea to the which wee
intend to dispose us aboute the latter end of this present month of May
. And forasmuch also as wee have for your great ease spared you of your
attendance uppon us in our said jorney and left you at home to doe us
service in the keepinge of our peace and good rule and order amongstes
our said subjectes , wee will therfore and comaunde you that dureinge
the time of our said absence out of this our realme yee have a speciall
oversight , regarde and respecte aswell to the said sheriffe as the
said justices how and with what diligence they doe and execute our
comaundmentes comprised in our said lettres . And that yee also from
time to time as yee shall see neede , quickly and sharply call uppon
them in our name for the execution of our said commaundmentes .
CLIFFO,34.003.18

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
And if yee shall find any of them remisse or negligent in that behalf ,
wee will that yee lay it sharply to theire charge , advertiseinge them
that in case they amende not theire default , yee will thereof
advertise our counsaile attendinge upon our deerest daughter the
Princesse CLIFFO,34.003.19

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
and so wee charge you to doe indeed . CLIFFO,34.003.20

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
And if our said sheriffe or justices or any other sheriffe or justices
of any other shire next to you uppon any side adjoyninge shall need and
require your assistance for the execution of our said comaundementes ,
wee will and desire you that with the best power that {with}_P yee can
make of our subjectes in harneis , yee be to them aidinge and
assistinge from tyme to time as the case shall require , not faileinge
hereof as yee intend to please us and as wee singularly trust you .
CLIFFO,34.003.21

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:29
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_I:MALE:_:1454:66
LETTER:CLIFFO_003:E1:1520:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at our mannor of Greenewich the xviijth day of
May . CLIFFO,34.003.22

<Q_CLI_C_1525_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_004> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_35>

{ED:4_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_7_SEPTEMBER_[1525]}_C ODE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin therle of Cumberland .
CLIFFO,35.004.23

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,35.004.24

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,35.004.25

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as wee understand that the late lord Clifford , your
Father deceassed <paren> whose soule God pardon </paren> by his
sufficient writtinge granted and lett to farme to our trustie and
welbeloved servant Edward Gouldsbrough the mannor and lordshipp of
Gouldsbrough with the appurtenances in our countie of Yorke , to have
and to hold the same to our said servant dureinge the nonage of Thomas
Goldsbrough , sonne and heire of Richard Goldsbrough deceased ,
yeildinge and paieinge therfore yearly like rent and ferme as in the
said writinge is specified more at large . Wee therefore desire and
pray you cousin to permitt and suffer our said servant peaceably and
quietly to enjoy and occupy the said mannor dureinge the nonage of the
said Thomas Goldsbrough accordinge to the effect and purporte of your
said Fathers grante without any interruption to the contrary .
CLIFFO,35.004.26

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
And in your so doeinge yee shall administer unto us full good pleasure
to be remembred accordingly hereafter . CLIFFO,35.004.27

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:34
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:32?
LETTER:CLIFFO_004:E1:1525:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our towene of Stony Stratford the vijth day
of September . CLIFFO,35.004.28

<Q_CLI_C_1528_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_005> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_36>

{ED:5_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_27_NOVEMBER_1528.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved cousin therle of Cumberland .
CLIFFO,36.005.29

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,36.005.30

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin , wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,36.005.31

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
And understand that one Dicke of the Woodfoote otherwise called Richard
<P_37> Urwen , Scottishman and a simple person who hath committed
felony within this our realme upon our subjectes on our borders of
Scottland is taken and in ward with you under your charge with our
castle of Carlisle . And that also our trusty subject Gefferey
Middelton squire is taken in Scotland by the Urwens and delivered to
the Armestronges , outlawes there , as hee was goeinge in his
pilgrimage unto Saint Trewnym {ED:SIC} and so is kept with the said
Armestrongs in duresie and shall not be delivered without restoringe of
the said Dicke of the Woodfoote otherwise called Richard Urwen , beinge
in ward with you . Wherefore , wee in consideracion thereof will and
commaunde you , that yee forthwith upon the sight hereof , deliver or
cause to bee delivered the said Dicke of the Woodfoote otherwise called
Richard Urwen unto the said Gefferey Middelton for to bee convaiede
into Scotland for redeemeinge and pledgeinge of the same Gefferey out
of the handes of the said Armestronges , without faileinge thus to doe
as wee trust you , and as yee tender our pleasure . CLIFFO,37.005.32

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
And these our letters $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} your sufficient warrant
and discharge in this behalfe att all times hereafter .
CLIFFO,37.005.33

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:37
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_005:E1:1528:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our mannor of Bridwell the xxvijth day of
November , the xxth yeare of our raigne {ED:1528} . CLIFFO,37.005.34

<Q_CLI_C_1530_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_006> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_38>

{ED:6_HENRY_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_13_JUNE_[1530]}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin therle of Cumberlande
. CLIFFO,38.006.35

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,38.006.36

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,38.006.37

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
And albeit for certaine matters of great importance touchinge us and
the wealth of this our realme , wee were minded to send for you to
repaire hither unto us . Yet tendringe your labors and eschewinge your
charges in the same , wee have thought good to send unto you our
trustie servantes William Brererton {ED:SIC} , one of the Gentlemen of
our Privie Chamber and Robert Leighton our Chaplin and Thomas
Writhesley one of the clerkes of our Signet , to open and declare our
mind and pleasure unto you , desireinge you to give firme credence unto
the same . CLIFFO,38.006.38

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
And straightly charge you to keepe secret such matter as they shall
shew unto you without disclosinge or communicatinge it to any personne
or then those whome ye understand by your said servantes to be made
privie thereunto without failing as wee singulerly trust you .
CLIFFO,38.006.39

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_006:E1:1530:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at our castell of Windesor the xiijth day of
June . CLIFFO,38.006.40

<Q_CLI_C_1532_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_007> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1502?>

<P_38>

{ED:7_VIII_TO_TH.IXTH_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND,_24_AUGUST_[1532]} _@

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
A coppie of a lettre from his majestie to my lord of Cumberlande
{ED:SIC} . CLIFFO,38.007.41

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,38.007.42

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as wee bee enformed the borderers of Scotland have of
late <P_39> made divers roades into our East and Middle Marches to the
greate damage and hurt of our subjectes there , due redresse whereof
our officers , as they write unto us , $can $not {TEXT:cannot} attaine
of the kinge of Scottes . So as wee accompt our self bound for the
safegard and defence of our said subjectes to provide and furnish a
convenient garrison to lie uppon the saide borders untill such time as
wee may otherwise take order therein , wee therfore will and desire you
, and likewise comaundinge you by these presentes authorishe the same ,
to putt in a readines and retaine of your tenantes and servantes the
number of two hundreth able men , well horsed , with bowes and arrowes
, in sufficient array so as they faile not to be at our towne of
Newcastle the xviijth day of September next comeinge , to serve us in
the said garrison under the leadeinge of a captaine to be by you
appointed , whome wee require you to make Roger Lassells , a man
thought unto us verie meete for the same . CLIFFO,39.007.43

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Signifieinge unto you that forasmuch as the fewer of thinhabitantes of
Northumberland be retained in the said garrison the stronger shall the
country bee as yee cann by your wisedome consider , our pleasure is
therfore that there bee in no wise above two personages inhabitantes of
Northumberland in every hundreth of your said number ne yet of the
inhabitantes of your mannor of Cokermouth for disfurnishinge of those
partes . CLIFFO,39.007.44

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And as for conducte money , and money for coates for your said men ,
wee have appointed payment to be made at our citty of Yorke the xijth
day of September next ensueuing {ED:SIC} by thandes of our trustie and
welbeloved servant Sir George Lawson knight where fore sendinge thither
therfore ye shall not faile to have the same paid accordingly .
CLIFFO,39.007.45

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And as for instructions how and after what sorte and fashion wee will
have the said garrison ordered , wee shall with all diligence send the
same unto you . CLIFFO,39.007.46

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:_:1502?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_007:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our monastarie of Abbington the xxiiijth
day of August . CLIFFO,39.007.47

<Q_CLI_C_1532_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_008> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493??>

<P_40>

{ED:8_HENRY_VIII_TO_SIR_THOMAS_CLIFFORD,_3_NOVEMBER_[1532].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:_:1493??:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_008:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
To our trusty and right welbeloved servant and counsailour Sir Thomas
Clifford knight , deputy of our towne of Barwicke . CLIFFO,40.008.48

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:_:1493??:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_008:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
By the Kinge CLIFFO,40.008.49

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:_:1493??:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_008:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Trusty and right welbeloved wee greet yow well . CLIFFO,40.008.50

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:_:1493??:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_008:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And perceyving by contynew {ED:SIC} of your lettres to us addressed of
the 22th day of October not onely your dexterity and wisedome used in
setting forth of the shipp to encounter with the Scot as you writt and
in other our affaires , for the which we give unto yow our hartye
thancks , but also how sundry attempts have been lately comitted by the
Scots on our borders : yee shall understand , that not a little
mervayling that our counsaile there have stayd to defyne those actes to
be notable entries , wee have at this tyme addressed our lettres
generally to our said counsaile , like as ye shall now perceive by the
same , willing and desyring yow to follow the contents of the same as
much as in you for your part , as our speciall trust and confidence is
in yow , whereby yee shall more and more deserve our thanckes to be
remembred and your weale here after accordingly . CLIFFO,40.008.51

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:_:1493??:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_008:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at our towne of Calais the 3 day of November .
CLIFFO,40.008.52

<Q_CLI_C_1530S_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_009> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_41>

{ED:9_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_3_NOVEMBER_[1531_X_15 33]}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved cosyn the erle of Cumberland .
CLIFFO,41.009.53

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
Henry R {ED:ex} By the Kinge CLIFFO,41.009.54

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and right welbeloved cosyn , wee greet yow well .
CLIFFO,41.009.55

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
And whereas our most deerest father of famous memory , whose soule God
perdon , by his lettres pattentes , amongst other things , did give and
graunt unto our intirely beloved grandmother , Lady Margeret countess
of Richmond , Somersett and Derby deceased , many great libertyes ,
franchesyes and customes to be used with our barrony of Kendalle within
our countye of Westmorland as by the same lettres pattentes thereof
made more plainely it appeareth . According to the which graunt our
said late graundmother peaceably occupyed $exercised and enjoyed the
same libertyes and customes during her naturall life , all which
libertyes and customes wee have of late given and graunted amongst
other thinges unto our intyrely beloved cosyn Henry duke of Richmont
and Somersett , to have , hold , exercize and use to him and to his
heyres males in as large and ample manner as {in}_P ever they weare
exercized and used by our said grandmother . Nevertheles as wee be
informed , yee , being sheriff by inheritaunce of our said county of
Westmorland , have of late suffred your officers and ministers of your
said sheriffwick to disturb , molest and greive the officers and
tenantes of the said duke in the exercising of the said libertyes and
customes to the great inquietnes of the tenantes , inhabitantes and
officers of the said duke within the said barrony . CLIFFO,41.009.56

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
Wee therefore willing indifferency to be ministred unto all our
subjectes , will and comaund you that from henceforth yow charge your
officers to permitt and suffer all the officers and tenantes of the
said duke to use and occupy the said libertyes , franchesyes and
customes and every of them within the said barronry {ED:SIC} according
to our graunt and in like manner and forme as {in}_P they or any of
them weare used by our said grand mother without lett or interrupcion
of yow or any of your officers . CLIFFO,41.009.57

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
Faile yee not thus to doe as we especially trust you . CLIFFO,41.009.58

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_009:E1:1530S:COPY:OTHER
Yeoven under our signet at our mannor of Greenwich the third day of
November . CLIFFO,41.009.59

<Q_CLI_C_1532_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_010> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_43>

{ED:10_HENRY_VIII_TO_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_19_NOVEMBER_1532.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_010:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved cousin therle of Cumberland .
CLIFFO,43.010.60

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_010:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,43.010.61

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_010:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cosin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,43.010.62

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_010:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Forasmuch as by advertisementes from our borders of the East and Midle
Marches foranempst Scotland , wee understand that it is right expedient
and necessarie for the defence of those partes and annoyance of the
Scottes <paren> who daily molesteth , harrieth and spoileth our
subjectes </paren> , to augment and encrease our garrison there , to
the number of fifteene hundred men over and above one thousand which is
att our charge there already . Wee therefore desire and pray you and by
these presentes authorish you so to doe ; to levie , retaine and put in
aredines of such as be within your rules , auctorities or your owne
tennantes the number of two hundred , and the same beinge able
personages and furnished in array after the manner of the borders , to
send to our towne of Newcastle the fifth day of December , there to be
ministred and appointed to such places as {to}_P they $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbee} by order of our right trusty and right welbeloved cosin
and counsalour therle of Northumberland and other our counsalours there
allotted unto , to whom at theire comeinge thither $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} allowed and paid money for the conducte thither
accordingly , wherfore faile ye not thus to do as wee specially trust
you . CLIFFO,43.010.63

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:41
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_010:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet at our citty of Canterbury the xixth daie of
November the xxiiijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1532} . CLIFFO,43.010.64

<Q_CLI_C_1533_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_011> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_47>

{ED:13_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_13_AUGUST_[RECT.EP
TEMBER]_1533.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_011:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cosin therle of Cumberlande .
CLIFFO,47.011.65

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_011:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,47.011.66

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_011:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,47.011.67

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_011:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Lettinge you wite that albeit upon such towardnes of conformytye as
appeared unto us to have beene in the kinge of Scotts by such sutes and
intercessions as was made unto us by sundry waies and meanes to take
att our hand a peace honorable for us and our realme , wee removed and
withdrew such our garrisons as wee had upon our borders , yet findinge
nowe that our $strength removed and his feare somwhat therby asswaged ,
hee sayth more coldly and after other sort unto us then was trusted he
would , requiringe such condicions of truce as whereunto wee with our
honour $can $not {TEXT:cannott} agree . Wee therfore be now enforced to
renewe our said garrisons and to present him such a visage of our
strength and arredines as hee may therupon knowe and understand howe
expedient and necessarie it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} for him to
followe and conclude the truce which hee first desired of us in such
sorte as in honour wee may be contented with the same . Wherefore wee
will and desire you and by these our lettres authorishe you so to doe
to put in arredines for warre upon the borders the number of cc persons
furnished with captaines att your choise and with other habilimentes
accordingly to be taken of your tennantes and such rules and officies
as yee have under us , so as they may repaire to our right trustie and
right welbeloved cousin and counsailour therle of Northumberland ,
warden of those our East and Middle Marches att such time and place as
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} by his lettres appointed unto you .
CLIFFO,47.011.68

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_011:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet att our parke of {COM:BLANK_THE_EDITION}_CODE_NP
the xiijth day of August the xxvth yeare of our raigne {ED:1533} .
CLIFFO,47.011.69

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_012> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_51>

{ED:15_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_5_OCTOBER_[1536].}_C ODE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_012:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour therle
of Cumberland . CLIFFO,51.012.70

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_012:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,51.012.71

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_012:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,51.012.72

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_012:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as it is certainly declared unto us how that against such
time as our commissioners in those partes appointed for the dissolucion
of such pettie monasteries as be within the lymitt of the acte passed
in our high courte of parliament for that purpose entended to repaire
to the house of Hexam in the same to execute our most dradd
comaundement and comission , the chanons of the same assemblinge unto
them other lewd and light persons did not onely most traitorously
withstand and our said comissioners and disobey or rather utterly
contemne our lawes , comissions and comaundmentes made and sent out in
that behalf , but also to put them selves in forceable array to have
enterprized further attemptates if our said comissioners had not wisely
withdrawen themselves in convenient time and season . The enterprise
where of joined with theire resolute answere , which was that
accordingly to theire continuance they made they would indeed lose
theire lives all before wee should execute the order and determinacion
of our lawes , against them , is so hainous , traitorouse and
detestable that mindinge to have the advicers thereof punished to the
example of all other our subjectes , wee will and straitly charge and
comaund you that imediatly upon the sight hereof , assemblinge all the
force yee can make of your frendes , servantes and tennantes , yee
shall addresse yourself thither . And there with such other of our
faithfull subjectes and servantes as wee have appointed , to doe the
semblable either to take and apprehend by way of theire submission all
and every the chanons and other persons that with them have attempted
this traitorous acte , and the same comitt to sure and stronge prisons
in severall places or els in case they will not yeild , but make
resistance , either to take them by force or in the doeinge thereof to
use them like arrant and detestible traitors to the terror of all other
hereafter . And thereupon to put aswell in possession our said
comissioners or such other as they shall limitt thereunto as to have
such vigilant regard to the preservacion of the quiet of the countrie
as our good subjectes theire be not molested with the misdemeanours of
such evill disposed persons hereafter without faileinge as wee
specially trust you . And as yee will answere for your slacknes herein
att your perills . CLIFFO,51.012.73

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_012:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our castle Windesor the vth day of October
. CLIFFO,51.012.74

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_013> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_52>

{ED:16_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_14_OCTOBER_[1536].}_ @

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour ,
therle of Cumberland , wardeigne of our West Marches anempst Scotlande
. CLIFFO,52.013.75

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,52.013.76

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin , wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,52.013.77

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as by your lettres of the ixth of this present month
written to our right trustie and welbeloved counsailour the lord
Crowmwell , wee doe not onely perceave the misdeamenours of Gilleslande
, but likewise the confederacies made in Dent , Sedbarr and Wensladale
by the meane and reporture of such false and untrue matter as was never
by us or any of our counsaile purposed or entended , with your good
determinacion for the repression of the same , for the which wee doe
right hartely thanke you . <P_53> Consideringe that in this troubelous
time when by thoccasion of the traitorous insurrection in Lincolnshire
light heades may take courage to attempt thinges displeasant and
unlawfull , it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} meet for all honest true men
to have vigilant regard to the repression of all such enterprises with
such speedy diligence that they bee in no wise suffered to growe so
much that without difficulty they $can $not {TEXT:cannott} bee subdued
. Wee have thought good most instantly to desire and pray you not onely
to put all your strength and force in such aredines that you may keepe
our borders under your rule in such quiet that for want of redresse or
by notable attemptates our leages bee not on our behalf broken , but
also that you may endeavour yourself therewith to the repression of all
such traitors as would arise and make any unlawfull assembly or
insurrection in those partes . Eftsoones desireinge you now to use all
your wisedome , manhood and policy that those partes may be brought to
quiet and semblably all others aboute you as wee specially trust you .
CLIFFO,53.013.78

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And wee shall not faile soe to recompence you for the same that you
shall have cause to bee contented . CLIFFO,53.013.79

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_013:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our castle of Windsor the xiiijth day of
October , the xxviijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1536} . CLIFFO,53.013.80

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_014> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_53>

{ED:17_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_19_OCTOBER_[1536].}_ @

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour ,
therle of Cumberland , warden of our West Marches foranempst Scotlande
. CLIFFO,53.014.81

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,53.014.82

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,53.014.83

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And have this day aboute ix of the clocke in the morninge receaved your
lettres of the xijth of this month declaringe as well the receipt of
ours of the vth of the same addressed unto you for the direction of the
matter of Hexam as you purpose for your repaire to the same <P_54>
which neverthelesse you have not accomplished accordinge to thatt
appointment you tooke in that behalf by reason of certaine rebellions
in those partes attempted <paren> as you write </paren> which wee
marvaile that you would suffer to growe and encrease unto so great
force and would not rather studdy to have repressed the same imediatly
upon the beginninge thereof without any our lettres or comaundment :
then to tarrie parlamentinge and consultinge how to redresse the same .
CLIFFO,54.014.84

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
For force is the cheefe remedy in such soddaine enterprises
CLIFFO,54.014.85

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
and easie had it beene to have then in the beginninge redressed that
which without some paine and difficulty will not now bee staied .
CLIFFO,54.014.86

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Notwithstandinge you shall understand that $we beinge also advertised
that there is att this time a great rebellion in the county of Yorke
and those partes , whereof wee bee assured yee have long {ED:?} $befor
this time heard and trust that accordinge to the greate confidence wee
have in you , yee have putt all your forces in a redines to represse
the same . CLIFFO,54.014.87

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Wee have for the sure and certaine repressinge thereof addressed with a
maine armie unto those partes our cousins of Norffolke , Excestre ,
Shrewsbury , Rutland and Huntingdon , desireinge and prayinge you
therefore not onely in such wise $to prepare yourself with all your
servantes and frendes in those partes if yee have not so done already
as wee doubt not but yee have , that you may redouble slacknes if any
hath beene already committed and so bend your powers , and shewe $your
face against the said rebells in such partes as may bee to theire
annoyance and utter repression , as the same may in every parte
perceive theire distructions , unlesse they withdraw againe speedely as
other lately have done in Lincolnshire , much lamentinge that upon
false and untrewe reportes and surmises sett out amonge them , they did
attempt such insurrection as whereby they have most highly offended God
and given us theire prince and soveraigne lord just cause extremely to
punishe them to the example of all others in time comeinge .
CLIFFO,54.014.88

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Willinge you further to animate and encourage our true and faithfull
subjectes with all the good perswasions you can devise to continue
theire $true {ED:?} and loiall fidelities towardes us , and to take our
parte accordinge to theire bounden duties , and to learne by thexample
of those in Lincolnshire what perill it is upon light and false rumors
and reportes to rebell against theire naturall lord and kinge against
Godes commaundment , and att length to theire owne utter destruction .
Declaringe also unto them that it is to our greate marvaile , that any
of our subjectes will so prone and ready and therwith so light to
attempt such a rebellion without any manner of grownd or cause against
us by whom they have beene so many yeares preserved in peace from the
annoyance of all owtward ennimes CLIFFO,54.014.89

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
and with such reasons wee desire you to induce and exhort them to
persever our true subjectes . Declaringe <P_55> also unto them theffect
of these bookes in the markette place and the most publique and open
audience that you shall thinke meet for that purpose . CLIFFO,55.014.90

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And for the more extreme punishment of these rebells in case they shall
continue in this theire rebellion , our pleasure is that you shall with
your forces make excourses uppon such personns as be notable auctors
and doers in the same . And for the better encourageinge of your
servantes , tennantes and frendes beinge with you , to devide amonge
them the spoile of all theire goodes and cattells , not doubtinge but
in all these thinges you will proceede so $honorablely as no good
subject be for any displeasure damaged nor the great offendors left
unpunished . CLIFFO,55.014.91

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_014:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at our castle of Windsor the xixth day of
October , the xxviijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1536} . CLIFFO,55.014.92

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_015> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_55>

{ED:18_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_1_NOVEMBER_1536.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour ,
therle of Cumberland , warden of our Westmarches foranempst Scotlande .
CLIFFO,55.015.93

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,55.015.94

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cosin wee greete you well . Lateinge
you wite that by your lettres lately addressed unto us and otherwise
perceiveinge your most noble harte and loiall courage to be such , as
notwithstandinge the great menaces and threatninges of the rebells and
the great danger yee were in by the same , yee determined rather to
abide the adventure of death and so to make your end if such extremitye
had ensued with honor and truth then to put yourself into the handes of
those that were traitors and manifest rebells assembled to no purpose
but to have destroied us and subverted the state of our whole realme
<P_56> wherby yee must needes have offended your alleageance , and
whatsoever the fyne should have beene , dishonored yourself and your
house in the estimacion of honest true men . Like as wee $can $not
{TEXT:cannott} give unto you for the same that praise and those thankes
that you have justly merited and deserved , assuringe you neverthelesse
wee shall never forgett your most faithfull proceedinges in that behalf
but $remember the same to the singuler rejoyce of you and yours
hereafter . So beinge now advertised that the said rebelles be againe
disparked and retired to theire houses and dwellinge places , and
desireinge verie much aswell your state and condicion , whether yee bee
now againe att your libertie , or whether yee keepe your hold and
fortresse still ; as in what sorte the said rebells thus retired do use
themselves now upon theire retirement , whether they remaine in
quietnes repentinge the offence of theire insurrection against us , or
whether they continue in any parte of that furie and madnes they were
in , like men that could be content uppon like purpose to make like
adventure and attempt semblable insurrection , wee have thought
convenient to desire and pray you not only of all the premisses with
all possible diligence to send us perfecte advertisement , but also in
case the said rebells beinge retired as is aforsaid doe lament any
thinge theire offences in this matter so as with good wordes which wee
pray you use unto them , declared {ED:SIC} what danger they were in by
theire said attemptate unles wee had beene a prince of great mercie ,
how much they have offended God in the same , howe shamefully they were
deceaved and deluded and what inconveniences doe ensue to themselves
there of . CLIFFO,56.015.95

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yee may thinke yourself assured of the multitude and perswade them by
litle and litle not onely to detecte unto you by whose meanes ,
$counsell and abettment they were first incensed to bee so earnest in
that matter , but also to helpe to the apprension of the said auctors
of this sedition and to doe what they can from time to time to convay
them to your handes . CLIFFO,56.015.96

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Then to travell yourself all that you possibly can to get into your
custodie such as were notable traitors in this matter , keepeing them
in sure gard and custodie , ever putting all the rest in sure conforte
that wee $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} a good and gratious lord unto them . In
the conduceinge of which matters to some frame and purpose , wee desire
and pray you to use all your accustomed wisedome and dexterity and in
no wise to be to hastie in the begininge but to proceed by litle and
litle and first to compasse them with policie , and after when yee
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} stronger and by good meanes more able to
accomplish that which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to your wisedome thought
convenient , to doe in every condicion towardes them as our further
pleasure to be declared unto you and the state of the matter shall
require . CLIFFO,56.015.97

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_015:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet att our castle of Wyndsore the first day of
November , the xxviijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1536} .
CLIFFO,56.015.98

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_016> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_57>

{ED:19_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_7_NOVEMBER_[1536].}_ @

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved cousin the earle of Cumberland
. CLIFFO,57.016.99

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henry R {ED:ex} CLIFFO,57.016.100

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and right welbeloved cousyn wee greet you well ,
CLIFFO,57.016.101

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
and aswell have receyved your lettres written at your castle of Skipton
the last day of October declaring your noble and faithfull hart and
valient courage in your determinacion to withstand to the uttermost the
rebells , with the great damnages and despites yee have susteyned by
the same and the good state and service done unto us also at our citty
of Carliell by our right trusty and welbeloved the lord Clifforde your
sonn , that faithfull and valyant young man . CLIFFO,57.016.102

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
As soone as your other lettres {TEXT:that} came to the handes of our
cousin of $Norffolk and by sundry other wayes , $we perceyved the great
loyalty and truth of all your proceedinges . For annswere whereunto yee
shall understand that as by these presentes wee give unto you for the
same with hart and minde our most intyre and cordiall thancks , so
doubt yee not good cousin but wee shall in deedes <paren> God giving us
lyfe </paren> so consider and remember , yea and recompence the loss ye
have at this tyme for your truth susteyned ; that you and yours shall
have good cause to be content and satisfyed with the same .
CLIFFO,57.016.103

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as wee trust that the danger <P_58> of that matter is now
passed , wee doe most hartily require you not onely to have vigilant
regard to the preservacion of your owne person till all thinges shall
be reduced againe into perfeccion , but also from tyme to tyme to
advertize us of the state of the partyes about yow , conformeable to
the tenour of our last lettres sent to the same end . CLIFFO,58.016.104

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_016:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at Windesor the 7th of November in the etc .
CLIFFO,58.016.105

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_017> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_58>

{ED:20_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_4_DECEMBER_1536.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved cousin therle of Cumberland ,
warden of our West Marches for anempst Scotlande . CLIFFO,58.017.106

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,58.017.107

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,58.017.108

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And have received your lettres of the xxixth day of the last month
addressed unto us from your castle of Skipton declaringe aswell the
continuance of your noble and faithfull harte towardes us as the
malicious attemptates <P_59> committed against you by the rebelles with
that also that the rumor is false that was spredd of the apprehension
of your sonne the lord Clifford , which wee know also otherwise by a
servant sent hither unto us from him and Sir William Musgrave to be
certainly true . CLIFFO,59.017.109

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Good cousin , wee would you should assure yourself that this your
loiall demeanor shall never be wiped out of our stomacke , nor that you
shall for the same be rewarded onely with wordes , but hereafter with
such deedes as you shall have cause to say you serve a good maister .
CLIFFO,59.017.110

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And like as by the said advertisement from the lord Clifford , wee
perceive you have , like a man of wisedome and policie , made such
shift for your furniture against the malices of the rebells that the
same shall not be able to prevaile against you , so wee desire and
hartely pray you before all thinges to use that vigilancie that you may
preserve your person out of theire danger which shall not be a little
to our contentation . CLIFFO,59.017.111

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And beinge in that suerty , wee desire you to practise by all the good
meanes you cann possibly devise to steere our good subjectes and to
recover our rebells to a due obedience . For the better compassinge
whereof wee send unto you herewith a proclamacion under our great seale
which as wee require you to cause to be proclamed and notified , soe
wee promise you for our honor wee shall performe the contentes there of
to all men that will submitt themselves unto you and receive such an
oath as is contained in a schedule herein enclosed . Desireinge you to
travell in this matter with all the dexteritie to you possible .
CLIFFO,59.017.112

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And for the more certaine and assured conduceinge thereof to our
desired purpose , to sett aparte all old grudges and displeasures with
all men , which wee doe trust att our contemplation you will right
gladly doe . CLIFFO,59.017.113

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And by these lettres wee give you full power and authoritie to receive
the said othe and submissions of all men CLIFFO,59.017.114

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
without exception that of the parties conteined in the proclamition
shall desire to make the same in such humble sorte as {in}_P to
subjectes doth appertaine . CLIFFO,59.017.115

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_017:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeoven under our signet at our mannor of Richmont the fourth day of
December , the xxviij yeare of our raigne {ED:1536} . CLIFFO,59.017.116

<Q_CLI_C_1536_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_018> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_60>

{ED:21_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_21_DECEMBER_1536.}_C ODE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsellour ,
therle of Cumberland , warden of our West Marches foranempst Scotland .
CLIFFO,60.018.117

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,60.018.118

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greet you well .
CLIFFO,60.018.119

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And have $received your lettres of the xiiijth of this month with the
copies therein enclosed , and perceiveinge by the same aswell the lewde
and seditious demeanour of Richard Dacer within our towne of Carlisle
as the assemble made in Craven uppon the settinge upp of the bills
uppon the church doores and that both the same matters be neverthelesse
by the wisdome of you , the lord Clifford your sonne and others beinge
within , appeased . CLIFFO,60.018.120

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Like as wee give unto you our most hartie thankes for the same , so for
aswell wee have thought convenient to signifie that wee have taken
order for the conveiance of the said Dacer hither and for the
certificate of the truth of the whole matter to be made unto us .
CLIFFO,60.018.121

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And as concerninge the devisoures of the said bills and procurers of
the insurrection made thereupon , wee desire and pray you to endeavor
your self to apprehend them and so to keepe them in sure prison till
you shall knowe further of our pleasure . CLIFFO,60.018.122

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
And further wee require you not onely to have a vigilant eye to the
confirmacion of our peace there and the speedy takeinge of all
malefactours and seditious personns that shall from time to time
transgresse our lawes in those partes ; but also semblably t'advertise
us of the state of that country , the conformity of the people and of
all other occurrances there , with your opinion touchinge the same .
CLIFFO,60.018.123

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_018:E1:1536:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet att Westminster the xxjth day of December , the
xxviijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1536} . CLIFFO,60.018.124

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_019> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_61>

{ED:22_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_24_JANUARY_1537.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour ,
therle of Comberland , warden of our West Marches for anempst Scotland
. CLIFFO,61.019.125

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,61.019.126

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cosin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,61.019.127

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And even so do right hartely thanke you for your truth and faithfullnes
shewed unto us in the time of the late comotion in those partes .
CLIFFO,61.019.128

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as syethens thappeasing of the same , devising upon the
establishment of our subjectes in quiet and how to reduce them to
perfect unitie and due obedience , wee perceive and consider that where
the head is not whole and perfect to it selfe , but devided into divers
contrarie partes and fantazies , the members must needes grow out of
due order and so <P_62> put the whole bodie in jeoperdie of destruction
unles the head may be againe recovered to that agreement in the self
that it may both in all thinges doe his office and direct his members
in that order and obedience that every of them may , for his parte , do
that office he was made and ordeined for , resemblinge the politique
body of a common wealth to the naturall body of a man . And
consideringe that as wee be the supreme head of this realme under God ,
so wee have yet in sundry partes of the same our nobles , officers and
ministers which represent our personne and so be heades and governoures
of the multitude , every in his quarter and countrie . And that in
those partes of our realme where you doe enhabite and have rule ,
dominion and auctoritie under us , there hath beene such devision ,
hatred and emnity betweene you and others being of our nobilitie and of
worshipp as the lord Dacres , the Parres and the Musgraves that wee
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} otherwise thinke thence that if you would have
conformed yourselves to an honest unity and agreement , beinge there in
the liew of heades for the direction of that parte of our said
politique bodie , the same could not have growen to that trouble and
discord it is now in . Wee have thought it our parte and dutie as a
personne in that preheminent place that of our office ought looke
specally to the quiet of our subjectes and rather to cutt away the
corrupt members that will not be healed with wholsom medecine then to
suffer them to ranker further and so to offende others that without
theire infection would be preserved in health and quiett , aswell to
induce and move you to such an honest concord , perfect love , certaine
amitie as all old grudges and displeasures dependinge betweene you may
be cleane withdrawne out of your stomacke and utterly cast away forever
and in stead of the same planted a most entire and assured frendshipp ,
as to comaund every of either parte to declare the same in such wise to
your frendes , servantes , tennantes and all others that be towardes
you , that they may perceive your reconsiliacion to be perfect ,
unfeined and of that plaine sort that may from them amove all rancour
and malice and engender in the same a like frendshipp to that which wee
have and shall thus establish betweene you . Whereupon you shall
understand that wee have here called before us and our counsell aswell
the lord Clifford your sonne and Sir William Musgrave for thone partie
and the said lord Dacres , Sir William Aparre knight and William
Apparre esquire on thother parte and in the presence of our said
counsell have caused every of them to desire <em> of the </em> others
goodwill and frendshipp , to promise from henceforth to putt all old
matters in oblivyon , to nurrish this new agreement betweene them and
to cause all theire frendes , tennantes and servantes on either parte
to do the semblable to $the $uttermost {TEXT:thutter_most} of theire
powers CLIFFO,62.019.129

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Neverthelesse , forasmuch as in this matter of contention betweene
<P_63> you and the said lord Dacres and others , wee do consider you to
be a principall partie on thone side and therfore accompte the
agreement made betweene your sonne and them as a thinge of small moment
unles you shall both approve his doeing therin by our comaundment and
for your owne parte also in such wise , conforme yourself to the same
that our desire therein may be fully satisfied and accomplished .
Albeit we doubt not but besides your dutie , the entire love you beare
unto us would enforce you without difficultie to condescende frankely
and with good hart therunto , knoweinge how much wee mind the same .
Yet for the more certaine conducinge therefore to our purposed effect ,
wee have thought meete to desire and pray you and neverthelesse
straghtly to charge and commaund you , at this our speciall request and
contemplacion , to forgett all old displeasures betweene you and the
said lord Dacres , Parres and other theire frendes and to use such
meanes for the continuance of a sincere amitie and perfect frendshipp
betweene you as wee may perceive that for our sake you can be content
wholy to frame your minde to our pleasure and so to cause all your
frendes , tennantes and servantes to doe the semblable as the said lord
Dacres and others before named for theire parte have already promised
the inviolable observacion of the same towardes you and yours .
CLIFFO,63.019.130

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Desireinge you further not onely to put this our desire in such
experience that our subjectes there by your familiarities and good
agreementes may see and perceive an entier desire of perfect love and
concord on either parte , but also in writinge to signify your answere
hereunto with diligence . CLIFFO,63.019.131

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_019:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet at our mannor of $Greenwiche the xxiiijth of
Jannuary , the xxviij yeare of our raigne {ED:1537} . CLIFFO,63.019.132

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_020> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_64>

{ED:23_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_26_JANUARY_[1537].}_ @

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_020:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsailour ,
therle of Cumberland , warden of our West Marches fore anempst Scotland
. CLIFFO,64.020.133

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_020:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,64.020.134

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_020:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greet you well .
CLIFFO,64.020.135

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_020:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as wee have at this time sent into those partes our
trustie and right welbeloved servant and counsailour Sir Anthony Browne
knight , one of the Gentlemen of our Privie Chamber , whome wee have
appointed in certaine thinges to conferre with you , our pleasure is
you shall give unto him firme and undoubted credence in all thinges
which he shall declare unto you on our behalf and semblably ensue the
purporte and effecte of the same as wee specially trust you .
CLIFFO,64.020.136

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_020:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signet at our mannor of Greenwich $the xxvjth day of
Jannuary . CLIFFO,64.020.137

<Q_CLI_C_1541_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_021> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_65>

{ED:25_HENRY_VIII_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_12_JUNE_1541.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin and counsellor , the
erle of Cumberland . CLIFFO,65.021.138

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,65.021.139

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
CLIFFO,65.021.140

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
And whereas wee have purposed , God willinge , to make our progresse
this yeare unto our citty of Yorke , and doe perceive and certainly
knowe that at our beinge there yee $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} verie
desirous accordinge to your bounden duty to repaire thither to visite
and see us like as wee would for our parte be as glad as yourself that
your desire therein might be satisfied , so forasmuch as wee doe
consider that your absence from our frontiers , which wee mind to have
at our beinge in those partes well furnished , were not convenient for
sundry good respectes , which wee doubt not but your wisdome doth waigh
and ponder , wee have thought meete to will and require you not onely
for your owne personne to forbeare your accesse unto us for this time ,
and rather to take occasion for the same at such other season as for
yourself $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} as comodious and to us more agreeable
, but also to cause such others as you elected
{ED:as_you_elected_REPEATED} at the late beinge there of our right
trustie and right entirely beloved cosin and counsellor the duke of
Norffolke to doe the semblable . CLIFFO,65.021.141

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
And albeit wee thinke it meete that you should make thus your demore
there as is aforesaid in your owne personne , yet wee $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} contented that the lord Clifford your sonne shall in your
liew and stead repaire unto us to attend upon us dureinge our aboade in
those partes accordingly . CLIFFO,65.021.142

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:48?
LETTER:CLIFFO_021:E1:1541:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett at our mannor of Greenwich the xijth of June ,
the xxxiijth yeare of our raigne CLIFFO,65.021.143

{ED:1541}

<Q_CLI_C_1542_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_022> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1517>

<P_66>

{ED:26_HENRY_VIII_TO_THE_SECOND_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_28_JULY_1542.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_022:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin , therle of Cumberland
. CLIFFO,66.022.144

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_022:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,66.022.145

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_022:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin wee greete you well .
Willinge and comaunding you imediatly upon the sight hereof you levie
or cause to be levied within the lordshipp of Knasbrough the number of
fiftie able personns furnished with horse and harneis for the warre .
And the same so levied and putt in order to comitt to the leadeinge of
our welbeloved servant Thomas Slingsby whom wee have appointed to be
captaine of them . And to see them convaied with all diligence to our
borders foranempst Scotland , there to be emploied for the defence and
suerty of the same , as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} devised and appointed
by our right trusty and right welbeloved cousin and counsellour therle
of Rutland and in his absence by our trusty and right welbeloved
counsellour Sir Robert Bowes knight whom wee have specially dispatched
thither for this purpose , without failinge as wee trust you .
CLIFFO,66.022.146

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_022:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
And these our lettres $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} your sufficient warrant
and discharge in that behalf . CLIFFO,66.022.147

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_022:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Yeoven under our signett att our castle of Windsor the xxviijth day of
July the xxxiiijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1542} . CLIFFO,66.022.148

<Q_CLI_C_1542_T_HENRY8> <L_CLIFFO_023> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1517>

<P_66>

{ED:27_VIII_TO_TH.ECOND_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_25_AUGUST_1542.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved cousin , therle of
Cumberlande . CLIFFO,66.023.149

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Henricus Rex By the Kinge CLIFFO,66.023.150

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved cousin , wee greet you well .
Lettinge you wite that sendinge at this present our right trusty and
right entirely <P_67> beloved cousin and counsalour the duke of
$Norffolk to our borders for anempst Scotland for the suertie and
defence of the same , wee have appointed you to give your personall
attendance there upon him , willinge and comaundinge you that imediatly
upon the sight hereof to put yourself with all such able men you can
make and furnish for the warre of your servantes , tenantes and others
within your romes and offices in such order and a readines as you may
sett forth with the same within one hower after yee $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} comaunded so to doe by our said cousin and counsalour
whome wee have made our liuetenant . CLIFFO,67.023.151

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
And therfore you must in all thinges obey him and his comaundmentes
even as yee would doe and {ED:SIC} if wee were present in person .
CLIFFO,67.023.152

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
And to instructe you how you shall furnish the said number of men which
you $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} able to make and bringe with you .
CLIFFO,67.023.153

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
First you shall make as many horsmen as you be able to furnish with
such horses as may serve in the feild if need so require , every
horsman to have his speere or his javelin CLIFFO,67.023.154

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
and the rest of your number you shall order in manner and forme
followinge . CLIFFO,67.023.155

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
The fourth parte thereof our pleasure is $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} good
archers , every one furnished with a good bowe and a good sheffe of
arrowes . The residue to be bill-men causinge every man to bringe a
good bill on his necke with him . CLIFFO,67.023.156

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Desireinge and neverthelesse comaundinge you to take paine diligently
to serve us herein at this present as wee trust you . CLIFFO,67.023.157

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
And these our lettres $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} your sufficient warrant
and discharge in that behalf . CLIFFO,67.023.158

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:25
LETTER:CLIFFO_023:E1:1542:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our signett att our honnour of Hampton Courte the xxvth of
August , the xxxiiijth yeare of our raigne {ED:1542} .
CLIFFO,67.023.159

<Q_CLI_C_1526_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_024> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_71>

{ED:29_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_ST_LUKE'S_D
AY_[18_OCTOBER_1526].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pleaseth it your lordshippe to be advertysed that I accordyng to your
commandement have delyvered your letter to my lordes grace wheryn as
yet I am not called to shewe his grace further of my credens .
CLIFFO,71.024.160

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I have delyvered your letter to Maister Wyatt CLIFFO,71.024.161

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have made apparans uppon the prevey seall CLIFFO,71.024.162

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath day yeven yn the next weke to make further answere theryn
uppon the kynges pleasure knowen . CLIFFO,71.024.163

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I have delyvered all your oder lettres consernyng your busynesses
here sens I come CLIFFO,71.024.164

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have entred yn $comunicacion for the expedicion of the same .
CLIFFO,71.024.165

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so shortly as they or eny of them be brought to eny sertente your
lordshippe shall have further knolege . CLIFFO,71.024.166

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my lorde , newes have we here that the Pope shuld be dryven to a
holde by the duke Fernando and the Imperours company and there kept yn
captyvyte . And as it is seid , Seynt Petre chyrch of Rome spoyled and
robbed by soldyours and oder adjonantes . And that the Bisshop of Bathe
and Mr Wynter which were goyng towarde the seid <P_72> Pope with grete
ryches be taken with the seid Imperours company and armye and there
reteyned unto the tyme the kynges plesor be knowen theryn .
CLIFFO,72.024.167

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also the Grande Turke hath beseged the kyng of Hungry CLIFFO,72.024.168

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath slane hym CLIFFO,72.024.169

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have distroyed his contrey CLIFFO,72.024.170

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and kepeth it yn trybute . CLIFFO,72.024.171

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after the seid newes with oder come to London , the Kyng was sent
fore CLIFFO,72.024.172

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and come yn all hast possyble out of the contrey frome Amptyll
CLIFFO,72.024.173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and contynued at Westmynster with his counsell by v or vj days
CLIFFO,72.024.174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but wherof they have concludyd it is not yet knowen . CLIFFO,72.024.175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my lady Clyfforde is sore syk of the ague and dropsey
CLIFFO,72.024.176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is not lyke to lyve long as this berer will shewe your good
lordshippe with oder thynges more at large . CLIFFO,72.024.177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our lorde $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} have your good lordshippe yn his
blyssed kepyng , CLIFFO,72.024.178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
at London on Seynt Lukys day . CLIFFO,72.024.179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,72.024.180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my lorde I have spoken for the allowance of your fee of the
wardenrye wheryn the clerkes of the resceyte sey they must nedys have
and see your patent which I wold ye sent up with some sure carier as
shortly this terme as ye can convenyently . CLIFFO,72.024.181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And then the same clerkes sey ye shall have it allowed without ferther
sute to the kynges highnes or to my lorde cardynall which patent I have
left at Carleton with my lady Belyngeham . CLIFFO,72.024.182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:33?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_024:E1:1526:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my syngler good lorde the
erle of Cumberlonde . CLIFFO,72.024.183

<Q_CLI_C_1527_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_025> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_73>

{ED:30_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_15_SEPTEMBE
R_[?1527].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} CLIFFO,73.025.184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord , my duhty remembrd . CLIFFO,73.025.185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyd your lordshipe to be advertysid that I have rec' your letter the
contentes wher off I have at lenth performed {ED:?} . CLIFFO,73.025.186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And accordingly I sente my servand Robert Horsley to the courte to my
lord privy sielle to knaw the kynges grace plessour and hys concernyng
Wylliam Clyfford CLIFFO,73.025.187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shuyd to hym also your said letter to me direkyd for the saym who
died repute your letter and demener in that by halffe substancyall
CLIFFO,73.025.188

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and touk the letter CLIFFO,73.025.189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and said he wauld shuyd $it unto the kynges maygesty .
CLIFFO,73.025.190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And to the mater he said that he knaw not but the said Wylliam Clyfford
was honeste and true and that he myght have and occupye all thynges
that ever he had . CLIFFO,73.025.191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also my lord this day my lord pruwy siell schud me in lyke maner as
{in}_P beffore he shud to my said servaund wherfor ye may wythowt
daunger lete hym goo wher he lest <em> as I thynk </em> and wher
further I presom that ye er not inquiet by meyne of Mr Norton ,
CLIFFO,73.025.192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in that my advice is ye caus sume lernd consell luke substancyally upon
your evidens , not doutdinge but ye shall have all that ryght requirs
wyth fawfor CLIFFO,73.025.193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the meyne tym my delygens $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} as the tym wyll
serve to the best of my pouer . CLIFFO,73.025.194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And over this my lord , I requier your lordshipe to be good to my
bydfelow and that shee myay remayne to my comyng unto yow or elles to
wryte me more certente CLIFFO,73.025.195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I have beene in comynication wyth the kynges magesty off certen
thynges , CLIFFO,73.025.196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as yet we be not threw so that I canne adyvertysse your good
lordship the planes , not $dowtinge wyth the grace of God to be
despatchd wyth my resonable dysire and the kynges fawffore
CLIFFO,73.025.197

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thus owre lord have your good lordshipe in hys blessid keppinge ,
CLIFFO,73.025.198

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
from London this Sondeday , xv day of $September . CLIFFO,73.025.199

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
An $my lord this day I dyned wyth the maire of London wher one merchand
of London shud me that he was collector for the kyng wher certen mony
is un paid wych is due to be payd by yow and shuld <P_74> have been
payd ij yers past the one payment and thother payment a yer pastd
wherfor my lord seeinge as all thynges is , me thynk it good ye se the
payment maid wyth delygens . CLIFFO,74.025.200

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,74.025.201

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:34?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_025:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my lord my brother delyver this . CLIFFO,74.025.202

<Q_CLI_C_1528_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_026> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_74>

{ED:31_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_18_MARCH_[1
528].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pleassyth your gud lordship to be advertyssith . And that I have
reyceyved your lettre and the coppy of my lord Dacar indentur wherof I
am ryght glade notwithstandyng if it hade be doyn afoir the kynges
grace it hade beyn the better . CLIFFO,74.026.203

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ferther it haith pleassith the kyng to be so gud and gracius unto
me that I trust my lord Dacre nor no other shall oppteyn the contrary
bot that I may have and in joy the castle of Kyrlylle for terme of my
lyff with all ussues , fees and proheyttes therunto ussed and
accustomed . CLIFFO,74.026.204

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Allso Master Tresorer thynkkith that if it myght stond with your plesur
it were neccessary and reqesytt for your lordship to se the kynges
grace this next terme CLIFFO,74.026.205

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye were never <P_75> more hyghely in hys gracios favor then ye be
at thys day CLIFFO,75.026.206

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and no fawytt , $bot onely your long absence . CLIFFO,75.026.207

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And newyelles we have noyn bott this Mounday xvjth day of March at
nyght my lord Tressorer and my lord Chamerlayn cam to the kyng and ther
was cumanded contenently to returne home in to thair contreys to stay
the comonys aswell in Northfolke as in othe placeys for insurrecconys
only anenst my lord Cardinall grace and all greitt men of the courtt ar
cumanded to returne home and keip thair countres in gud order except my
lord marquies of Exetre wich doith remayn styll in the courtt as
knawyth $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} who preserve your noble lordship .
CLIFFO,75.026.208

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryttyn at Wyndsour the xviijth day of Marche . CLIFFO,75.026.209

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,75.026.210

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:35?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:35?
LETTER:CLIFFO_026:E1:1528:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the Ryght honorable and my very gud lord therle of
Cumberland . CLIFFO,75.026.211

<Q_CLI_C_1531_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_027> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_76>

{ED:32_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_27_SEPTEMBE
R_[1531].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray goode lord in moost hartie wies I commende me unto your goode
lordeshipe . CLIFFO,76.027.212

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher as I doe perceyve that the mattir in traverce bitwixte Guy
Maychell and Richard Maychell is put to thorderinge of your lordeships
award to be yevyn furth unto theym in writinge on this syd the feast of
Saint Martyn next cummynge , for thobservinge wherof , as I ame
likewies informed , the said parties ar enterchangeably bounde by
obligacion , I most affectually doe desier your lordeshipe that in the
procedinges of the saide award your lordeshipe will , as good right and
mattir may and shall appear , tender and consider the manyfold injures
susteigned by the said Guy through the commocion and actes of the said
Richard , with your lieffull and reasonable favours the rather at the
contemplacion of this my letter and desier . CLIFFO,76.027.213

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And forsomuch as your lordeshipe all redy haith for the furst part of
your award in the premisses ordered that the said Richard should
deliver and restore unto the said Guy such cattell as he dyd taike by
mean of distres , and the same not fulfilled by the said Richard not
withstandinge your lordeshipes letter directed unto hym for the same ,
it may pleas your lordeship fer the mayntenance of the same furst part
of your award that the said Richard may be commaunded eftsons to maike
restitucion of the said gooddes and that in the hoolle sequell hirof
the right of the said Guy may be stauned for the mayntenance <P_77> of
his right accordinglie . CLIFFO,77.027.214

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our lord preserve your good lordeshipe . CLIFFO,77.027.215

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Barnardecastell this xxvijth day of September . CLIFFO,77.027.216

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your lordeships at commaundment , Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,77.027.217

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:38?
LETTER:CLIFFO_027:E1:1531:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray good lord my lord
of Cumberland . CLIFFO,77.027.218

<Q_CLI_C_1532_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_028> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_77>

{ED:33_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_10_SEPTEMBE
R_[1532].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray good lord , pleasith it the same wher as I doo perceyve ye ar
putting in redines one hundreth men to be set forward to me according
to the kinges pleasor propoportyd unto your lordeshipe for that purpos
by his lettres which as I am enformyd by my servaund John Tempest is by
youe limityd to be at the leadinge of my nephew Thomas your sone who
shall have in cumpany with him John Skelton . My lord , I doubt not
with your favors bot your wisdom woill consaive my said nephew your son
is of over tendre yers to have rewll and guyding of such a company and
that John Skelton is of such age that he may not take ne susteyn the
payn rightly therunto pertenynge . CLIFFO,77.028.219

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in as much as the kinges lettre laitly unto $me addressid , the
copie <P_78> wherof I sent unto your lordeshipe , manifestid that his
hieghnes had appoyntid me to have the leading of one hundreth men and
for the same had writtin unto your lordeshipe , wold it pleas youe upon
your goodnes so to appoynt and try the same clen men weill horsyd and
frech archers as if neide be thei may doo such service as may sounde to
your honour and my worshepe and in likewies to caus and suffer my
coussing Cristofor Aske to come with the same , which is a man brokin
with the world and meat for such buysynes and may by his counceill doo
me singler good pleasours or els to send unto me the persones in full
noumbre CLIFFO,78.028.220

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall se theym so orderid as I doubt not bot their service $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} accepteable , as our lord knawith who ever preserve
your good lordeshipe in helth . CLIFFO,78.028.221

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Barwik this xth day of Septembre at nyt . CLIFFO,78.028.222

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,78.028.223

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_028:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray gud lord my lord
of Cumbreland with speed . CLIFFO,78.028.224

<Q_CLI_C_1532_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_029> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_78>

{ED:34_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_27_OCTOBER_
[1532].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray goode lorde , pleasith it the same for news occurraunt in
theis partes sence my lait lettres hir is noon , saving that at this
instant <P_79> tym ther is with my lord of Northumbrelande a
pursevaunte of Scotelande who haith brought lettres from the king of
Scottes unto the sam , by the tenour wherof as may be perceyvyd the
saide kinge is verray loth and in hiegh fear of warr to succeide ,
offering and demaunding meatinges to be had verray largely and humblie
for the avoding ther of . CLIFFO,79.029.225

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord , hir haith been with me this berer George Burton with divers
his frindes makin instance , that wher your lordship haith the sam
George in suyt for sleyng of dere , I should solicyt your lordeshipe in
his favors , wherfor wold it pleas the sam at this myn request to seas
of the suyt and to tak his humble submyssion with his good hert and
service in reacompence of his offence . Considering he beinge so
sorowfull and pensif for his trespas and woll offer hym self to abyd
such punycion therfor as your lordeshipe woll imput unto hym .
CLIFFO,79.029.226

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hertly requier your lordeshipe to us and take the maitir in paciens
accordinglie rather for the sakes of such his frindes and uther
gentilmen as haith movyd me thus to doo as I trust your lordeshipe ye
rather wull . CLIFFO,79.029.227

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Holie Trenitie preserve your lordeshipe . CLIFFO,79.029.228

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Warkeworth this xxvijth day of Octobre . CLIFFO,79.029.229

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yours , Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,79.029.230

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_029:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray goode lorde my
lord of Cumbreland . CLIFFO,79.029.231

<Q_CLI_C_1532_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_030> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_80>

{ED:35_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_24_NOVEMBER
_[1532]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray goode lorde , pleasith it the sam to be advertised of affairs
lait occurraunte in theis partes . CLIFFO,80.030.232

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On Sonday the ix day of this month instante wher as viij=xx= of the
garyson soldiers of this town at nyt issued entendinge to have takin
upe a town in Scoteland and by chaunce light upon the lard of Langton ,
Scotesman , who was accompanyd with cccc men scottes at a place callid
Bille Myre and set upon the sam and took therof c prisoners and wan
iij=xx= horses . CLIFFO,80.030.233

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Wednisday last the xx day of this saide month instant , the lard
of Sesford , the lard of Farnyhirst his sone and heir , the lard of
Buckleugh and Mark Ker with iij standerdes with theym com
CLIFFO,80.030.234

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and invaydid Englend CLIFFO,80.030.235

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and cast of ij forrayes , the one of the watter of Brumishe and took
upe furth of Ingram , Branton , Reslay and Fawdon many nelt , sheipe
and gait {ED:?} , and the other of the Watter of Ayll {ED:?}
CLIFFO,80.030.236

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tuk upe Ryle and Prendewike . CLIFFO,80.030.237

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for your hauke which ye sent for to my lord of Angwysch , he is not
providyt therof at this tyme , CLIFFO,80.030.238

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
trustes within one weike of Saint Andrewwes to be stored and to serve
your lordeshipe of one than yf your fawconer com over agane .
CLIFFO,80.030.239

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I trust my self in the meane tym to provid your lordshipe of one
other , as knawith the Holie Trenetie who ever preserve your l
{ED:ordship} . CLIFFO,80.030.240

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Barwek this xxiiijth day of Novembur . CLIFFO,80.030.241

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,80.030.242

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_030:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray good lord my lord
of Cumberland . CLIFFO,80.030.243

<Q_CLI_C_1533?_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_031> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_80>

{ED:36_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_3_FEBRUARY_[?15
33].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray goode lorde , pleasith it the same , I have resayvede your
lordeships lettre daited at youre castell of Skipton the xviijth day of
the month of January last . CLIFFO,80.031.244

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher by the same your lordeshipe desierith <P_81> me to provide
youe of oone yeron jake of the best mayking , thinkinge that oone being
maide meat for me woll serve your lordeshipe and to have it maid with
joyntes and lithes at such places as may maike it most easye , I shall
not fayll , Gode wollinge , to have such one in a redynes for your
lordeshipe against your cumyng hithers <paren> if ye so doo </paren> .
CLIFFO,81.031.245

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in caace your lordeshipe shall set forwarde to the west partes ,
upon knawledge had from your lordeshipe , I shall send it unto youe
with all deligencence {ED:SIC} . CLIFFO,81.031.246

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as to provide your lordeshipe of goonepowder , ther is noon in the
New Castell , CLIFFO,81.031.247

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for that at is heir is of the kinges store which is resayvede by
indenture , so that no deliverance therof is maide nor put to no manner
of use oneles upon the kinges warraunt . CLIFFO,81.031.248

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Never theles yf your lordeships repayre $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} hither
I shall maik such shifte as ye may and shall be fornishid therof .
CLIFFO,81.031.249

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And upon knawlege of your pleasour , yf ye thinke goode , I shall writ
to London for your fornitor ther of to be sent unto your lordeshipe
with all deligence . CLIFFO,81.031.250

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sembleablie accordinge to your pleasor , upon knawlege had by me of
my lorde of Northumberlandes writing unto your lordeship and oder
nowbill men for your resorting hither with your powers , I shall writ
unto my cousinge Lowther wherby he may be in more redines to meat your
lordeshipe . CLIFFO,81.031.251

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Advertising your lordeshipe I have as yhit kepid your servand and
fawconer for bicaus the hawk which I had $provydyt for your lordeshipe
was not so good at the proyf as she was rakenyd to be ,
CLIFFO,81.031.252

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfor I have sent heir agane , trustinge to have a better sent
which if I have not , I shall doo displeasors therfor the trible value
at large . CLIFFO,81.031.253

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Certefyyng your lordeshipe , my lorde of Angwish sendis youe one by
your said servand such one as I undertaike shall right well content
your lordshipe , CLIFFO,81.031.254

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he had rather have doon youe eny oder pleasor that he could than
have parted with heir . CLIFFO,81.031.255

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Holie Trenitie preserve your lordeshipe . CLIFFO,81.031.256

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From the kinges castell of Barwike this thrid day of February .
CLIFFO,81.031.257

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,81.031.258

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_031:E1:1533?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray good lord my lord
of Cumberland . CLIFFO,81.031.259

<Q_CLI_C_1536?_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_032> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_83>

{ED:38_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_29_DECEMBER
_[?1536].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:43?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_032:E1:1536?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verray goode lorde , pleasith it the sam . I have resayvede a lettre
from Mr Treseror unto your lordeshipe directyd with one oder lettre
unto my self wherby he willit me to breke $upen your lordiships lettre
and to se the contentes therof and to writ unto youe to be towardly
myndit for your partin accordinge therunto which by myn oppynnyon shall
not onelie be to the hiegh contentacion and plesor of the kinges grace
, bot also a great strength , weall and comforth to youe , both your
frindes and allyes . CLIFFO,83.032.260

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:43?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_032:E1:1536?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus after my right hertie recomendacions unto my lady your
bedefolloy , I woll commit youe unto the tuicion of the Holie Trinite .
CLIFFO,83.032.261

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:43?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_032:E1:1536?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Barweke this xxixth day of Decembre . CLIFFO,83.032.262

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:43?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_032:E1:1536?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,83.032.263

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:43?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_032:E1:1536?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray good lord my lord
off Cumberland . CLIFFO,83.032.264

<Q_CLI_C_1530S_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_033> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_84>

{ED:39_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_17_MAY_[153
O_X_1538].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verry good lorde pleasith it the same , I have receyvyd your lettre
by your servaunt Richard Graym . CLIFFO,84.033.265

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wherr therby ye do requier that I should make shift for your
lordship of a certayn some of money , of verrey truyth and of
confidence which your lordship may and shall gif unto me , at this tym
it is not in me possible to do . CLIFFO,84.033.266

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nevertheles I send unto your lordship herinclosed a warrant unto
William Bean your lordshipes auditur and William Baylyff of London ,
fishmonger , upon which they or the one of them shall delyver unto your
lordship one hundreth markes . CLIFFO,84.033.267

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for full reacompence of suche money as I am indetted unto your
lordship the same hundreth markes with xxxli payed upon your lordshipes
byll unto William Bayllif and xjli in contentacion of my lord of
Carlisle for certan hanginges with certan money payed for my lord your
sone allowed , I shall at Mighelmes next cumyng pay unto your lordship
the remayndor , not doubting that your lordship woll conceyve or
conjector eny thing herin bot to accept this for my reasonable excuse
without color , and to tendre not onely my greate charges yerly
hertofore susteyned by reason of payment for myn office , bot also that
nowe is the tym for me to maike provision for my houshold store ,
wherby it shall verrey deuly appear unto your lordship accordingly .
CLIFFO,84.033.268

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where as further in your lordshipes lettre ye doo move me that in
caace I my self can not serve your lordshipes request in the premisses
, that I should for your fornytor therof attempt Sir George Lawson
therfor as for me , of verrey truyth I have doon so albeit as he doith
say and alledge that what for provision of corn by the kinges
comaundment and in money layd furth for fournyshing of payment of the
garryson not yhit comyn to his handes , he haith beside his awn store
borrowed a greate some , so that I can in no wies borrowe eny money of
hym towardes your lordshipes purpos , for which I am right sory if I
could amend it . CLIFFO,84.033.269

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Trusting your lordship woll rakeyng that I have used my full delygence
for the accomplisshing of your request and desyer in the premisses ,
which to perform , I shall at all tyms do myn utter indevor to my full
power , as knowith the Hoolly Trenyte who ever preserve your good
lordship . CLIFFO,84.033.270

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Alnwik this xvijth day of May . CLIFFO,84.033.271

<P_85>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your lordeships at comandment , Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,85.033.272

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_033:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honourable and my verray goode lorde , my
lorde of Cumberland . CLIFFO,85.033.273

<Q_CLI_C_1530S_FN_TCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_034> <A_THOMAS_CLIFFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1493??> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_85>

{ED:40_THOMAS_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_10_JUNE_[15
3O_X_1538].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_034:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My verrey goode lord . Aftir my most humble recomendation , wher as I
doe undirstonde that ther is certaine proces cum down against my
cousinge Sir John Lowther and that in thexecution therof your
lordeships commaundement is verrey ernest towart hyme , I beinge of
good rememburaunce that at my laite beinge above , my said coussinge
and your servantte Thomas Joylye was in communycation and was put in
trust by your said servantte , that he wold discharge hyme above for
{ED:that_DELETED} a certain somme {ED:of_DELETED} then named which my
said cousinge dyd promes hyme I beinge afor . $Wherfor I will besech
your goode lordeshipe , consideringe the premysses and also how that
upon his goode will he dyd give me monytion of my dangers by reason
wherof I have procured his great payn and chargies for his repayr unto
the kinges counceill wher likewyse he dyd use hym self right
substanncially and frindelye , that he doinge that thinge that
sufficiauntely may discharge yor lordeshipe . CLIFFO,85.034.274

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_034:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye will so frindelie use hym <em> ... </em> <paren> the rather at the
contemplation of this my lettre </paren> in this bihalve as that he
shall thinke his goode will towart me weill bistowed , not doubtinge
bot his demerittes towart your lordeshipe shall disserve the same as
knawith the Hollie Goost who have your good lordeschipe in eternall
tuycion . CLIFFO,85.034.275

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_034:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From the kinges castell of Barwick this $ixth day of June .
CLIFFO,85.034.276

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_034:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your lordships at commaundement , Thomas Clyfford . CLIFFO,85.034.277

<P_86>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CLIFFORD:MALE:BROTHER:1493??:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_034:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honorabill and my verray good lord my lord
of Cumberlande . CLIFFO,86.034.278

<Q_CLI_C_1537_FN_HCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_035> <A_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1517> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_86>

{ED:41_LORD_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_14_APRIL_[1
537].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My dewtie remembred . CLIFFO,86.035.279

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pleassith your honorable lordsheipe to be advertiseth with humble
desyres of your dayly blessyng and that the kynges letter ys delyvered
accordyng to your cummandment wherin I corth make no reportt by causse
I hade no copy nor credence from your lordshepe of the same and ferther
I have maid peticion to hys grace for sum parcelles of the landes of
Fournes wherin hys said grace haith answarded me that he wyll have a
gareson keiped ther , in so much {ED:?} that I can have no spede therin
as yeitt . CLIFFO,86.035.280

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also certefeyng you that my lord the duke of Southfolke ys not in
the courtt , notwithstandyng I have delyvered your lettres to hys
secreyttory wich haith appyved thaym and oppon the syght therof said he
wald solucite for the complessement of thaym the best he myght .
CLIFFO,86.035.281

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} have your honorable lordsheipe in his
blessed keipeyng . CLIFFO,86.035.282

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyng at London the xiiij day of Apprill . By yowr most lufuyng sun ,
Henry Clefford . CLIFFO,86.035.283

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:20
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_035:E1:1537:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my ryght honorable and synguler gud lord and father
the erlle of Cumbrland ys dilyver . CLIFFO,86.035.284

<Q_CLI_C_1530S_FN_HCLIFFORD> <L_CLIFFO_036> <A_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1517> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_87>

{ED:42_LORD_CLIFFORD_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_12_JANUARY_
[?LATE_1530S,_NO_LATER_THAN_1540].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pleassith your honorable lordsheipe to be advertisith with harty
desyres of your dayly blessyng . CLIFFO,87.036.285

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher ther is a maitter in travers betwyxt one Reme of Clyfton and
on Wyber wich haith beyn befor your lordsheipe hertofor and now of lat
the said Wyber haith entered hym selfe , hys wyff and hys chylderyn in
to the house of the said pour man , oppon whois complayntt I dyd calle
the parties befor me and advertisith thaym to abyde my order wich the
said Wyber dyd refusse , wheroppon I have cumanded Thomas Sanfurth
beyng your lordsheipe stewartt to putt thaym owytt agayn to the matter
be forther tryed by the lawe or otherwysse . CLIFFO,87.036.286

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also ther was inqere maid at the last sessions at Applebe of a
certayn ryott to be comytted and doyn at Overton wich the wald not be
founde CLIFFO,87.036.287

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for the ferther examynation therof , I my selfe , the abbott of
Shaipe with other gentilmen dyd make ferther inqer as mor playnly doith
apper by certayn bylles concernyng the same wich I have sende unto you
and of your plesur herin $what ever that ye wyll certefye the counsell
or cumand me other wysse concernyng the premysses . CLIFFO,87.036.288

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besuch your lordsheipe that I may knawe wich I shall ever be glade to
accompleshe with the grace of $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} who have your honorable
lordsheipe in hys blessed keipyng . CLIFFO,87.036.289

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryttyn at Brougham Castle the xijth day of Januarij .
CLIFFO,87.036.290

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my lord they of Perith haith sett a courtt CLIFFO,87.036.291

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haith putt dowyn the office of the Skeldrake sheipe for ever by
cause ye shall not have your purpos wich me thynk is nott for your
honor to be doyn nowe mor in your days then it haith beyn in other
menys tyme to for you . CLIFFO,87.036.292

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yowr most lovfuyng sun , Henry Clefford . CLIFFO,87.036.293

AUTHOR:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:SON:1517:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:FATHER:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_036:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my ryght honorable lord and father therlle of
Cumberland this $delyvered . CLIFFO,87.036.294

<Q_CLI_C_1523_FO_HPERCY5> <L_CLIFFO_037> <A_HENRY_PERCY_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1478>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_90>

{ED:43_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_ELEVENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_30_S
EPTEMBER_[1523].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To mine owne good lord and soninlawe the lord Clifford .
CLIFFO,90.037.295

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Myne owne good lord and sonn , in my hartiest manner I thanke your good
lordshipp for my good cheire and costes I put you to att my last beinge
with you which if it lie in me I shall deserve . CLIFFO,90.037.296

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I send your bedfellow and your little one and mine hartie Godes
blessinge and mine . CLIFFO,90.037.297

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I have sent the ringe here inclosed which my <P_91> servant
forgatte to inclose in my last lettre wherein I beseech your good
lordshipp to take no displeasure with your servant the bearer of my
last lettre for the negligence of my servant . CLIFFO,91.037.298

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I have no newes to send you , CLIFFO,91.037.299

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but there comes fast privey seales to all them which made no lone to
the kinge last for them to make payment forthwith and to all them which
have not paid the lone that they were sessed att . CLIFFO,91.037.300

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I perceave that yonge sir Raufe Elliecar goe over sea
CLIFFO,91.037.301

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for hee is puttinge his men here in a readines CLIFFO,91.037.302

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and there shall come out an armie into France , CLIFFO,91.037.303

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
who $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} captaine as yet I knowe not .
CLIFFO,91.037.304

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My servant William Worme is not come home yet , CLIFFO,91.037.305

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but as soone as hee comes yee shall have such newes as I have .
CLIFFO,91.037.306

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord your clock-smith is comen to me this $Michaelmis even which
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} with you againe as soone as I can possible rid
him . CLIFFO,91.037.307

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I send you by this bearer my booke of all my fines made in
Craven at every time and by whome , what is received and what remaines
unpaid and what they be that have not fined and are unsessed
CLIFFO,91.037.308

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and my lord , I cann be contented to take cattell as sheepe or neat for
that which is behind if they will lett me have it by reasonable prices
. CLIFFO,91.037.309

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I pray you that I may be advertised herein by this bearer which I
sennd unto your good lordshipp att this time . CLIFFO,91.037.310

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Written att my castell of Wresill the last day of September .
CLIFFO,91.037.311

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_037:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your kinsman assured , H. Northumberlande . CLIFFO,91.037.312

<Q_CLI_C_1523_FO_HPERCY5> <L_CLIFFO_038> <A_HENRY_PERCY_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1478>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_91>

{ED:44_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_ELEVENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_6_DE
CEMBER_[1523].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my lord and soninlawe the lord Clifforde . CLIFFO,91.038.313

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mine owne good lord , and soninlawe , in my most hartie manner I
$recommend me unto you CLIFFO,91.038.314

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and sendes my daughter your bedfellowe and your little ones and mine
hartie Godes blessinge and mine CLIFFO,91.038.315

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and giveth unto you mine owne good lord my most intire thankes for your
loveinge and kind dealinge with me in this my necessitie upon my last
writinge unto you and my lord , CLIFFO,91.038.316

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} assured yours . CLIFFO,91.038.317

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And my lord I have yet no word from London but onely that mine attorney
is comen home , William Danbye , who Sir William Gascon , Treasurer to
my Lord Cardinall spake with att his departure CLIFFO,91.038.318

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and willed him to shew me that the matters that you and I spake to him
on concerninge the lord Conniers should bee spedd and also I should bee
spedd in those matters I brake with him in {TEXT:in} {ED:SIC} like
forme and that <P_92> I should send upp as lait as I canth because he
should goe home into his country and that he should shew me that my
lord cardinall will cause the kinge to write unto us .
CLIFFO,92.038.319

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And also himself would write in like forme . CLIFFO,92.038.320

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The kinges lettre is comen unto me which I send you by this bearer to
see . CLIFFO,92.038.321

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
If yours bee comen I pray you send it me in like forme .
CLIFFO,92.038.322

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My said attorney grauntes there is a viccar elect at Roym .
CLIFFO,92.038.323

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord , my lord treasurer wrat by post to the abbott of St Marie
abbey who send me word on Thursday last , the iiijth day of December ,
that hee would not faile to be with me uppon Sonday att night next ,
the vijth day of December , CLIFFO,92.038.324

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
the coppie of my lettre of answere unto the said abbott againe I have
sent you here inclosed . CLIFFO,92.038.325

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My owne good lord and sonn I pray you hast my venison away that I may
send it upp CLIFFO,92.038.326

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I make the carrier to tarry for it . CLIFFO,92.038.327

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord the soldiers beyond the sea comes a pace against theire
captaines wills . CLIFFO,92.038.328

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The duke of Suffolke shall bide there all this winter .
CLIFFO,92.038.329

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The lord Sannds came over to the kinge by post , CLIFFO,92.038.330

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
the cause why is not yett knowne . CLIFFO,92.038.331

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The lord Mongey shall goe over with v ml $men CLIFFO,92.038.332

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but as yet it restes . CLIFFO,92.038.333

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord , Roger Chamblays matter of the murder is quickly handled by my
lord cardinall and by the helpe of Sir Williame Gascon .
CLIFFO,92.038.334

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lorde there is a new busines in London for a new lone of money in so
much as the judges and all other there was stopped att mine attorneys
comeinge away for that cause . CLIFFO,92.038.335

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord yet would I know where I shall see you and your bedfellow in
the latter end of this Christmas CLIFFO,92.038.336

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as I have further newes I shall advertise you . CLIFFO,92.038.337

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Written att my mannor of Leckingfeld the vjth day of December .
CLIFFO,92.038.338

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_038:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your kinsman , H. Northumberland . CLIFFO,92.038.339

<Q_CLI_C_1523_FO_HPERCY5> <L_CLIFFO_039> <A_HENRY_PERCY_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1478>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_92>

{ED:45_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_ELEVENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_[6_X
_25_DECEMBER_1523].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To mine owne good lord the lord Clifforde . CLIFFO,92.039.340

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mine owne good lord , in my full hartie manner I commend me unto you
CLIFFO,92.039.341

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and sendes my daughter your bedfellow and your little ones and mine
hartie Godes blessinge and mine . CLIFFO,92.039.342

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I have no newes to send CLIFFO,92.039.343

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I perceave the duke of Suffolke shall over in all hast and that
they are mustringe fast and the lord Ferries shall over with him who
hath much busines in his country CLIFFO,92.039.344

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for he is faine to put them in prison because they will not in no wise
goe over with him and all other as I perceave is in like case
CLIFFO,92.039.345

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for they alleadge for them that they will not lie out in winter .
CLIFFO,92.039.346

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord my receavour of Northumberland <P_93> is with me here
CLIFFO,93.039.347

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and hee sheweth me that my lord treasurer falles well to justice
insomuch as he hath hedet {ED:SIC} of the Fenwiks , Eringtons and other
insomuch that there is but hard agreement betwixt him and the lord
Dacres . CLIFFO,93.039.348

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And he sheweth me that the duke of Albany hath broken his day .
CLIFFO,93.039.349

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for these Inglish folkes which was said was about the kinge of
Scottes , he can tell me of no such thinge , CLIFFO,93.039.350

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but he sheweth me that the kinge of Scottes hath the lord Hambleton and
other about him and is disposed to bee mervelous self willed and
uttereth that hee can as evill browke Inglish men as ever did any of
his age and doth take as obstinate waies with him for his yeares .
CLIFFO,93.039.351

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I have worde from London that my marchand goes not abroade and
{COM:BLANK} not to London CLIFFO,93.039.352

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and other where my lord I perceave that all those that have not lent
the kinge already shall have privie seales to pay theire lone or els to
come upp this terme and all those that are behind which hath beene
sessed and not paid hath mervelous sharpe privie seales and verie
rigorous wordes . CLIFFO,93.039.353

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your servant can shewe you that my venison <paren> God thanke you
</paren> was mervelous well accepted and came well as can bee
CLIFFO,93.039.354

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for the kinge came to {COM:BLANK}_NP to my lord cardinall as it came
thither . CLIFFO,93.039.355

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What presentes were prepared against the kinges comeinge your servant
can shew you . CLIFFO,93.039.356

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My servantes dragges above for my causes CLIFFO,93.039.357

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but as yett they can gett none answere to come home . CLIFFO,93.039.358

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I have sent my trustie servant Robert Hastinges my baliffe of
Nafferton to your good lordshipp with my booke of fynes , what is paid
and what is unpaied in that countrey and of every time that the lettes
was . CLIFFO,93.039.359

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord , I would bee content to take sheepe or neat or any other
cattell for it so that I may have them upon reasonable prices wherein I
beseech your good lordshipp of your loveinge kindnes herein
CLIFFO,93.039.360

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and my lord , all other fermholdes of mine which was not lett before ,
I beseech your good lordshipp to lett them out in like case after the
rate as theire farmes comes to a yeare at the least and further as your
good lordshippe thinkes best . CLIFFO,93.039.361

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Also my lord ye shall perceave as I am informed that all the crowners
in this country is bound to certifie to the kinges counsaile of all the
owtlawries in this country ; wherefore it is good your good lordshipp
speake with the crowners in your partes for your frendes and servantes
for suites , CLIFFO,93.039.362

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for if the outlawries be delivered it will sure come to a money matter
: CLIFFO,93.039.363

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
if they be staid and not delivered and the parties agreed it shall doe
no hurt . CLIFFO,93.039.364

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I shall send you betwixt this and Cristenmas your booke of
orders for your house and your booke of otes . CLIFFO,93.039.365

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I will leave out of it all your prices and the quantites because yee
may stint what prices yee will agree to one yeare with another in the
<font> grosse emption </font> and also what quantites that yee may put
in more or lesse as yee thinke good to serve your house .
CLIFFO,93.039.366

<P_94>

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:45
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:30?
LETTER:CLIFFO_039:E1:1523:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your kinsman assured , H. Northumberlande . CLIFFO,94.039.367

<Q_CLI_C_1527_FO_HPERCY5> <L_CLIFFO_040> <A_HENRY_PERCY_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1478>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_94>

{ED:46_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_29
_MARCH_[1526_OR_1527].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To mine owne good lord and sonne my lord off Cumberlande .
CLIFFO,94.040.368

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mine owne good lord and sonne in my hartiest manner I recommende me
unto you . CLIFFO,94.040.369

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And the cause of my writinge unto your good lordshipp att this time is
that I receaved your lettre concerninge the chauntrie voide att my
castell of Cockermouth for your preist this bearer wherein <P_95> I
must beseech your good lordshipp to take none unkindnes with it that
hee is not spedd , CLIFFO,95.040.370

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
hee hath beene verie importunate . CLIFFO,95.040.371

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I perceave it hath beene alwaies accostomed that one of the said
preist should keepe a grammer schoole which is a mervelous good and a
meritorious deede . Wherefore I would be loath to breake that good
president . Wherefore mine owne good lord , I have gotten a maister of
grammer to be chauntrie priest there and to be bounden to keepe the
said grammer schoole continually . CLIFFO,95.040.372

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Hee is one that hath beene exercised with teachinge CLIFFO,95.040.373

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and is a sedulous preist and in good yeares . Wherefore my lord I pray
your good lordship to be contented with this good deede , by followinge
of this good example hereafter . CLIFFO,95.040.374

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if such a place in my chauntrie fall in myne hand here after , I
will put therin your preist afore any other . CLIFFO,95.040.375

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Written att my castell of Wresill the xxixth day of Marche .
CLIFFO,95.040.376

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_II:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1478:49
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:1493?:34?
LETTER:CLIFFO_040:E1:1527:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your owne assured , H. Northumberlande . CLIFFO,95.040.377

<Q_CLI_C_1524_FO_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_041> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1502?>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_1493?>

<P_95>

{ED:47_LORD_PERCY_TO_THE_ELEVENTH_LORD_CLIFFORD,_19_NOVEMBER_[152 4].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my owne good lord and brother my lord Clifford . CLIFFO,95.041.378

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mine owne good lord and brother I hartely comend me unto you .
CLIFFO,95.041.379

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And where that nowe by my lordes meanes for my advancement to honnour ,
the kinge hath appointed me to bee one of them which shall assault the
castell of Lowaltie , the circumstances of which castell this bearer
shall showe you at length with all the occurrentes here ; where by my
lord I am likely to be not at a little cost . And my lord my Father
will doe nothinge for me CLIFFO,95.041.380

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but would be gladd to have mee put to lacke . CLIFFO,95.041.381

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And now my good lord there is no remedy but {COM:BLANK} my frendes to
helpe me or els to make some other shift to save mine honnour .
CLIFFO,95.041.382

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I desier and most hartie pray you to lend me for one yeare the some of
cli and that I may have it here with me afore St Andrew Day next if it
may be possible . CLIFFO,95.041.383

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for the repayment thereof againe <P_96> assure as yee can devize .
CLIFFO,96.041.384

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yee shall have mine uncke Alaine $Percie or one or two more
substantiall persons bounden . CLIFFO,96.041.385

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus my good lord herein now yee may doe me mervelous pleasure .
CLIFFO,96.041.386

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I trust in time to come to doe you like pleasure if it may be in my
little power . CLIFFO,96.041.387

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In hast at London the xixth day of November . CLIFFO,96.041.388

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:22?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:31?
LETTER:CLIFFO_041:E1:1524:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assured and most faithfull brother , Henry Percy .
CLIFFO,96.041.389

<Q_CLI_A_1527_FN_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_042> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1502?> <R_CATHERINE_PERCY>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_96>

{ED:48_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_HIS_MOTHER,_THE_DOWAGER_COUNTESS
,_21_AUGUST_[1527].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:SON:1502?:25?
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PERCY:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_042:E1:1527:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most dere lady and moder , in my hertiest manner I commend me unto
your gode ladiship praing therof your daly blissing . CLIFFO,96.042.390

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:SON:1502?:25?
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PERCY:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_042:E1:1527:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher as I am informyd that ye ar proposid to go $to the erle of
Cumbreland , surely madam it shall not stand with your honour so to do
, pondering that ye have allegid by your writinges that if ye shuld
have gone theder when ye were mocioned by my lord cardinall it shuld
have put yow in jeoparde of your liff . CLIFFO,96.042.391

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:SON:1502?:25?
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PERCY:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_042:E1:1527:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now madam for to go theder shuld not onely amonges al wisemen be
reputid a gret lightnes in yow , pondering your excuse afor , but also
a mervelous inconstancy that ye shuld mak so farr a progres so sone
after the deth of my lord and fader whos soull $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} pardon
. CLIFFO,96.042.392

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:SON:1502?:25?
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PERCY:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_042:E1:1527:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Writen at Ohelsan the xxjth day of August . CLIFFO,96.042.393

<P_97>

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:SON:1502?:25?
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PERCY:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_042:E1:1527:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your humble lovyng son , Henre Northbreland . CLIFFO,97.042.394

<Q_CLI_C_1532_FO_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_043> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1502?>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_1493?>

<P_97>

{ED:49_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_29
_OCTOBER_[1532].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
A coppie of a lettre from Henry erle of Northumberland to Henrie first
erle of Cumberlande his brother in lawe . CLIFFO,97.043.395

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My good lord and brother in my hartiest manner I commend me unto you .
CLIFFO,97.043.396

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And accordinge to your desire and my good sisters your bedfellowes as I
perceave by my brother Clifforth have admitted Lancelott Martin this
bearer to the bowbearershipp and fermehold of my Forest of Langstrothe
. CLIFFO,97.043.397

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And also have send unto your good lordshipp a commission herewith
wherein I have denominiated William Gravis as my commissioner and left
a space for as many as shall please your good lordshipp to put in to
view my game and woodes there . CLIFFO,97.043.398

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for newes here , therle of Murrey is made warden for against me .
CLIFFO,97.043.399

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Neverthelesse he keepeth still Edenbrough CLIFFO,97.043.400

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for where he should have lien at Coldingham , he was contented that I
should bee his steward to make his provision against his comeinge there
. CLIFFO,97.043.401

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for mine under officer I made George Dowglasse , who two daies
afore his comeinge thither did make such a fire to warme him with all
that Coldingham with two other townes nye adjoyninge thereunto and all
the corne thereunto belonginge to the value of sterlinge was burnt and
nothinge left standinge but onely the abbey where they toke prisoners
and good horse beside head of cattle . CLIFFO,97.043.402

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And so daily rodes and burninges is betweene us and Scotland by stealth
. CLIFFO,97.043.403

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And <P_98> notwithstandinge many outragious actes done by the Scottes
to England , oure garrisons here is not determined to feight but all to
keepe the peace . CLIFFO,98.043.404

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My good lord and brother as him that is most desirous of your good
company and my good sisters , if I durst bee so bold to putt you to
paine in these rude partes I $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} bold to desire you
and my sister to keepe this Christmas with me at me castle of Werkwurth
, most hartly beseechinge your good lordshipp for the same , which
should be most unto my comforth . CLIFFO,98.043.405

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for any army to be raised against the west borders , I will assure
you the contrarie , CLIFFO,98.043.406

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and there is $none likely afore the springe of the yeare any army to be
raised against these marches under my rule , pondringe not onely the
devision betweene the kinge of Scottes and his nobles but also the
longe distance of the partes from which he must bringe his armie .
CLIFFO,98.043.407

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for lettres enowe there passis betweene the warden of Scotland and
me but finally noe redresse nor meetinges . CLIFFO,98.043.408

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus my good lord have you in his keepeinge . CLIFFO,98.043.409

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Written at my castle of Werkwurthe the xxixth day of October .
CLIFFO,98.043.410

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_043:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assured faithfull brother , H. Northumberlande . CLIFFO,98.043.411

<Q_CLI_C_1530_FO_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_044> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1502?>
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_1493?>

<P_98>

{ED:50_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_[M
AY_1533].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
A coppie of a lettre from Henry erle of Northumberlande to Henrie first
erle of Cumberland his brother in lawe . CLIFFO,98.044.412

<P_99>

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My singuler good lord and brother , in my most hartie manner I recomend
me unto your lordshipp . CLIFFO,99.044.413

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And this Tuesday earely in the morninge I receaved your kinde and
loveinge lettres with the coppies aswell of the kinges highnes lettres
unto your good lordshipp as to my nephew your sonn , whereby I perceave
yee goe upp to the queen 's corronation , assureinge your good
lordshipp I have no knowledge as yet from the kinge whether I shall
come upp yet or not . CLIFFO,99.044.414

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Neverthelesse I have a servant of mine with his grace and all my
frendes above to sollicite my comeinge upp seeinge it is a likelihood
to be a peace . CLIFFO,99.044.415

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And concerninge all the doeinge aswell here from the kinge as to the
kinge , you shall perceave by the coppies of the lettres there of here
inclosed at length CLIFFO,99.044.416

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as soone as I have knowledge what I shall doe , I shall not faile
to send unto you in post . CLIFFO,99.044.417

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My good lord and brother , where of your goodnes it pleaseth you to
write what liveries I doe give , ye would give as nigh the same as ye
can , for which my lord I most hartelie thanke you , CLIFFO,99.044.418

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and ye shall perceave that all my gentlemen shall have tawnie with
broad gardes of blacke velvet as they use now in the court and my
yeomen plaine tawny with redd capps and blacke feathers without any
imbrodery as I am yet advised . CLIFFO,99.044.419

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am purposed to be seaven score horse and not above CLIFFO,99.044.420

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if yee be upp afore me , looke what fashion your coates be made
CLIFFO,99.044.421

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and mine $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} of the same turne . CLIFFO,99.044.422

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Also my lord , where of your goodnes and noble favor toward me , yee
bee contented that wee shall meete soe to ride both upp togeather to
the kinge or els I to come to you to Skipton , the which my lord , if I
goe nott upp in too great post I will not faile . CLIFFO,99.044.423

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if I doe soe , then I will desire your good lordshipp , my sister
may take the paine to meete me at Topcliffe whome of all women I am
most desirous to see . CLIFFO,99.044.424

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus my lord I leave of here in this matter because I looke daily
for word from the kinge . CLIFFO,99.044.425

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord I am determined as for yet to lie att my lord Mountjoyes house
at Paules Cheave . CLIFFO,99.044.426

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Also my lord now you must somethinge thinke upon your honnour as well
for $your owne apparell as for my good nephewes uppon which I have made
your lordshipp a draught after my foolish opinion . CLIFFO,99.044.427

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1502?:28?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1493?:37?
LETTER:CLIFFO_044:E1:1530:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Also my lord I thinke yee shall have henshemen at the coronacion which
if yee have , yee shall have three and three of my henshmens coates if
yee send unto me . CLIFFO,99.044.428

<Q_CLI_C_1532_FN_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_045> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1502?>
<R_MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_100>

{ED:51_EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_MARGARET_COUNTESS_OF_CUMBERLAND,
_10_JULY_[1532].}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sister the countesse of Cumberlande . CLIFFO,100.045.429

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mine owne good ladie and sister I hartily comende me unto you .
CLIFFO,100.045.430

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And have received your present by your servant Shires for the which I
render unto you my right hartie thankes . CLIFFO,100.045.431

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yee $shall $be {TEXT:shalbee} assured I shall deserve your kindnes
which I have ever found in you as a good naturall sister unto me
heretofore which I shall not put in oblivion as Jesus knoweth who keepe
you . CLIFFO,100.045.432

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Westminster the xth day of July . CLIFFO,100.045.433

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_045:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your loveinge brother , H. Northumberlande . CLIFFO,100.045.434

<Q_CLI_C_1532?_FN_HPERCY6> <L_CLIFFO_046> <A_HENRY_PERCY_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1502?>
<R_MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_100>

{ED:52._EARL_OF_NORTHUMBERLAND_TO_MARGARET_COUNTESS_OF_CUMBERLAND
,_18_MAY_{COM:BLANK}}

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
LETTER:CLIFFO_046:E1:1532?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sister my lady of Cumberlande . CLIFFO,100.046.435

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
LETTER:CLIFFO_046:E1:1532?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mine owne good lady and sister , after my most hartie recomendacion
unto you with cordiall thankes for your paines taken with me at my
house wherein you showed yourself so kind and naturall that I must
needes count myself most bounden unto you next the kinge above all
other , trustinge , God willing , not to faile but affore Trinity
Sonday to see you at your owne house which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
most my comfort , in hast xviijth day May . CLIFFO,100.046.436

AUTHOR:HENRY_PERCY_III:MALE:BROTHER:1502?:30?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_CLIFFORD[N.PERCY]:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
LETTER:CLIFFO_046:E1:1532?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your faithfull loveinge brother , H. Northumberlande .
CLIFFO,100.046.437

<Q_CLI_C_1535_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_047> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493??>

<P_102>

{ED:53_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
[?EARLY_1535].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord in my harty wise I recommend me unto yow .
CLIFFO,102.047.438

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And so it is that I have receyved your lettres , by the which I doe
perceive the goodwill and intent of your hart for the accomplishment of
the marriage between my lord your sonn and my daughter .
CLIFFO,102.047.439

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And my lord I ansuer yow I have no less good will and minde but that it
may take effect <paren> God willing </paren> , CLIFFO,102.047.440

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for my lord I doubt not but you knowe well inough that the delay
thereof that hath been never came of me . CLIFFO,102.047.441

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But my lord I pray you doe herein , as I will not fayle , God willing ,
at my next coming to the kings grace <paren> which I trust shall be
shortly after Easter </paren> , CLIFFO,102.047.442

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and that is or {ED:SIC} your departure to knowe the kings pleasure ,
whether it shall stand with his pleasure the said marriage shall goe
forth or not , CLIFFO,102.047.443

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and upon his graces pleasure knowne , I ensure you there shall be noe
delay but you shall knowe myne intent and minde wholly with which I
doubt not , but you will be content . CLIFFO,102.047.444

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And my lord , as concerninge my lord your sonns beinge in the court , I
am very glad thereof , CLIFFO,102.047.445

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for it shall be both-1 to your honour and his weale .
CLIFFO,102.047.446

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for changing of his minde , if it shall soe happen I had rather
he did now then hereafter , CLIFFO,102.047.447

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I mistrust him nought , as knoweth God whoe send you my now good
lord as well to doe as I would my selfe . CLIFFO,102.047.448

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:51
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:42?
LETTER:CLIFFO_047:E1:1535:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Written at my house at Henham . By yours assured , Charles Suffolke .
CLIFFO,102.047.449

<Q_CLI_C_1536_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_048> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493??>

<P_103>

{ED:55_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
7_NOVEMBER_[1536].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,103.048.450

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord in my right harty manner I commend me unto <P_104>
yow . CLIFFO,104.048.451

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And forasmuch as I understand my daughter was of late in some daunger
by reason of the rebells in your partes : I hartely pray you my lord in
eschewing any further danger or perill ye will send her unto me hither
if yee thinck yee may so doe by any suertye possible ,
CLIFFO,104.048.452

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and here I trust she shall be out of danger , where I intend to have my
wyfe shortly by Godes grace whoe have yow my good lord in his keeping .
CLIFFO,104.048.453

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At Lincolne the 7th of 9er . CLIFFO,104.048.454

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_048:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,104.048.455

<Q_CLI_C_1536_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_049> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493??>

<P_106>

{ED:57_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_1
1_DECEMBER_[1536].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,106.049.456

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord in my right harty manner I commend me unto you .
CLIFFO,106.049.457

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe it is that 5 or 6 dayes passed I receaved certeyne proclamacions
and lettres from the kings highnes , which I should have sent to
Barwicke by water unto Sir Thomas Clifford whoe should have sent the
same unto you and to my lord your sonne and others as surely as he
could devise accordinge to theire direccions , which notwithstanding ,
because the said lettres and proclamacions were delivered unto me at
the tyme appointed for the meetinge , I have kept and stayd the same
proclamations with me untill I might have sure knowledge how all things
should come to pass uppon the next meeting . CLIFFO,106.049.458

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And now forasmuch as <paren> thancked be God </paren> all things be now
brought to a good end , I deteyne the said proclamacions in my handes ,
considering it is not now needfull to putt the same in execution ,
sending unto you the kings said lettres to the intent yee should
perceive how thanckfully the kings highnes doth accept and take your
good service done unto his highnes at this tyme , whereof I am more
gladd then {that_I_am} I cann comitt to penn . CLIFFO,106.049.459

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And my lord I intend , God willing , shortly to be at the court ,
CLIFFO,106.049.460

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if yee send any servaunt of yours thither I shall advertize yow of
such further news as I shall know there by Godes goodnes , whoe have
yow my very good lord in his blessed keeping . CLIFFO,106.049.461

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At Lincolne the 11th day of December . CLIFFO,106.049.462

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:52
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493??:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_049:E1:1536:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,106.049.463

<Q_CLI_C_1530S?_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_050> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_109>

{ED:60_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
17_SEPTEMBER_[1537_X_1541].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,109.050.464

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord , in my right harty wise I commend me unto yow .
CLIFFO,109.050.465

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And understandinge that my daughter Clifforde cann never have her good
health at Riche {ED:SIC} Abby , I desyre you my lord that you would be
contented that your sonne my lord Clifford and my said daughter may
have your castle at Brome as they have had afore tyme where they may be
and contynue for such season as they shall thincke most convenyent for
the more confirmacion of both their healths , wherein you shall doe me
and them great pleasure . CLIFFO,109.050.466

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray you my lord , of your minde herein yee will advertize me in your
writinge by this bearer . CLIFFO,109.050.467

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus the Holy Trinitye have you in his keepinge .
CLIFFO,109.050.468

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At my castell of Tatershall the 17th day of September .
CLIFFO,109.050.469

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,109.050.470

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Postscript . CLIFFO,109.050.471

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord , if yee have any tame red deere that ye may send me , I pray
you send me some of them , CLIFFO,109.050.472

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_050:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I shall paye for the charges of their conveyaunce .
CLIFFO,109.050.473

<Q_CLI_C_1539_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_051> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_110>

{ED:61_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
20_DECEMBER_[?1539].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,110.051.474

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord after my right harty comendacions , yee shall
understand that as this day I have receyved your lettres and a hundreth
marks towardes the furniture of my lord your sonns and my daughters his
wifes charges ; which some $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} very little , and
will not serve for that purpose . CLIFFO,110.051.475

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore I trust yee will disburse a larger some like as yee have
promised me you would doe . CLIFFO,110.051.476

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My part shall not lack as yee shall perceive hereafter .
CLIFFO,110.051.477

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And whereas I perceive by my lord your sonns lettres that he intendeth
to resort to London with diligence , and that my daughter his wife
shall contynew with you untill the holy dayes shall be passed , and
then to be conveyed hither , I am contented therewith as knoweth God
whoe have you , my lord , in his keeping . CLIFFO,110.051.478

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At the kinges castell of Dover the of December . CLIFFO,110.051.479

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:55
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:46?
LETTER:CLIFFO_051:E1:1539:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,110.051.480

<Q_CLI_C_1540_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_052> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_110>

{ED:62_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
4_FEBRUARY_[1540].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,110.052.481

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord after my harty commendacions theis shall be to advertize you
that whereas my lord your sonne and your servaunt have mooved me for
the lease of Boulton , with very much difficulty and with the especiall
helpe of my frendes I have now a promise thereof , CLIFFO,110.052.482

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but it must be to your charges CLIFFO,110.052.483

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for the partyes that had a graunt thereof must be some <P_111> what
compounded and agreed with ; CLIFFO,111.052.484

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
assuring you if I had not made great labours therein it would not have
been gotten for a great some of mony , as I am sure my lord your sonne
cann advertize . CLIFFO,111.052.485

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for the marks which I doe owe yow , I shall disburse that for
you out of hand , CLIFFO,111.052.486

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and ye must send hither with all speed {with}_P yee cann li more ;
CLIFFO,111.052.487

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therewith I trust to satisfye all partyes in such wise as it shall
come to your handes according to your desyre . CLIFFO,111.052.488

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus the Holy Trinity have yow my very good lord in his tuicion .
CLIFFO,111.052.489

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At London the 4th of February . CLIFFO,111.052.490

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:47?
LETTER:CLIFFO_052:E1:1540:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,111.052.491

<Q_CLI_C_1530S?_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_053> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_111>

{ED:63_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
14_JANUARY_[1525_X_1542].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,111.053.492

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My very good lord , in my right harty manner I commend me unto you .
CLIFFO,111.053.493

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And so it is that my lord Richard Greye hath shewed me that ye <P_112>
owe him diverse sommes of mony as in the right of my lady his wife
concerning her dower and joincture , whereupon resteth and dependeth a
great part of his living . CLIFFO,112.053.494

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And forasmuch as my said lord is content at my desyre no further to
open this matter against you , I pray you my lord to see him payd as
speedily as ye conveniently cann so that he have no further cause to
complaine against yow . CLIFFO,112.053.495

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus the Holy Trinity have yow , my very good lord , in his
keepinge . CLIFFO,112.053.496

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At the kinges mannor of Greenewich the 14th of January .
CLIFFO,112.053.497

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_053:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,112.053.498

<Q_CLI_C_1530S?_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_054> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_112>

{ED:64_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
27,_JANUARY_[1536_X_1542].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,112.054.499

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My lord in my right harty manner I commend me unto yow .
CLIFFO,112.054.500

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe it is that I have receaved your lettres and as touching such mony
as you should have had of Sir Thomas Wentworth , I shall soe provide
that you shall be satisfyed and payd thereof shortly .
CLIFFO,112.054.501

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for other your affayres in these partes , at my lord your sonns
coming home yee shall be advertized of the proceedings of the same ,
and in everythinge where in my good will and furtherance shall not
lacke at all tymes as knoweth God , whoe have you , my very good lord ,
in his tuicion . CLIFFO,112.054.502

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At my house besides Charing Cross the 27th day of Januarye .
CLIFFO,112.054.503

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_054:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours assured , Charles Suffolke . CLIFFO,112.054.504

<Q_CLI_C_1530S_FO_CBRANDON> <L_CLIFFO_055> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_113>

{ED:65_FIRST_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_
8_JULY_[1537_X_1540].}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_055:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My vere good lord , in my right hertie wise I comend me unto you and
also to my lady yor wiff , even so prayng you to remembre your promes
concernyng our meting this gresse tyme and to bring my ladye your wiffe
withe you to thentent we maye be merie together CLIFFO,113.055.505

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_055:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I entend , God willing , to be at Hatfeld Thorne the first daye of
Septembre as knoythe owr lord who have you in his blessid tuicon .
CLIFFO,113.055.506

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_055:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
From Tattershalle the viijth daye of Julij . CLIFFO,113.055.507

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_055:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
By yours assurid , Charles Suffolk . CLIFFO,113.055.508

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:KIN:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_055:E1:1530S:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To my vere good lord my lord of $Cumberlond .
CLIFFO,113.055.509

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_T2HOWARD> <L_CLIFFO_056> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_115>

{ED:67_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_18_JANUAR
Y_[1537].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_056:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,115.056.510

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_056:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
My very good lord in my harty manner I commend me unto you , letting
you witte , that whereas the kings majestie hath appointed me with all
speed and celerity to repayre into those partes there to reside as his
leiuetuante for the due administracion of justice betweene his
subjectes , to the intent I may be accompanyed with such part of the
nobles and gentlemen of those partes at myne entry into the same as
shall be convenyent for his highnes honour , his pleasure was I should
desyre yow by these my lettres to meete me at Yorke the third day of
February next , which I require and pray you to doe ; and in the meane
season to use such vigilancye and circumspeccion for the partes about
you as at my cominge thither , I may finde the same in such obedyent
conformity as to their dutyes apperteyneth . CLIFFO,115.056.511

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_056:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as it is necessary at your being with me at Yorke to have
diverse of the most substantiall and hedd yeomen of the partes under
your governance afore me to heare the declaracion of the kings pleasure
, I pray you bringe with you of every country under your said rule 5 or
6 of the most esteemed yeomen aforesaid . CLIFFO,115.056.512

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_056:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
From Greenwich the 18 day of January . CLIFFO,115.056.513

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_056:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Yours assuredly , T. Norffolk . CLIFFO,115.056.514

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_T2HOWARD> <L_CLIFFO_057> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_116>

{ED:68_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_[30_OR_31
]_MARCH_[1537]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,116.057.515

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
My very good lord , after my very harty commendacions , this shall be
to advertize you that the kinges highnes in his lettres addressed unto
me which I receaved yesterday , considering that now the king of Scotts
is repairing with his wife into Scotland , and is to be doubted what he
will attempt , hath commaunded me to require and pray yow at his coming
home to have good espiall upon him , to th'intent yow may the better
know his proceedinges and to be vigilant in the keeping good rule and
order upon your wardenry whereof ye have the charge .
CLIFFO,116.057.516

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And as concerning the Scottishmen that are at Carliell , his pleasure
is they shall not be delivered into Scotland though the Regentes should
desyre the same , but permitted to remayne still untill ye shall have
other advertizement of his highnes or me to the contrary :
CLIFFO,116.057.517

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
and therefore I pray you that they using themselves accordingly may
have all necessaryes for their mony as to honest men should apperteyne
. CLIFFO,116.057.518

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And thus hartely fare ye well . CLIFFO,116.057.519

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
From Newbrugh the 3 day of March . CLIFFO,116.057.520

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Yours assuredly , T. Norffolke . CLIFFO,116.057.521

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_057:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
My lord , myne advise shall be that in no wise ye depart towardes
London unles ye have the kings highnes licence so to doe .
CLIFFO,116.057.522

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_T2HOWARD> <L_CLIFFO_058> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_117>

{ED:69_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_31_MARCH_
[1537].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
To my very good lord my lord of Cumberland . CLIFFO,117.058.523

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
My very good lord , after my harty commendacions , this shall be to
advise you I have receaved of your servant this bearer the two
prisoners ye sent me , and right so acerteyne you that for my part I
cann lay nothing to their charges , but onely my lord of Sussex and
other the kinges councell in Lancashire . CLIFFO,117.058.524

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And therefore , as to the preist I have sent him unto the goale at
Yorke there to remayne under sure custody untill some matter may be
found to be laid against him . CLIFFO,117.058.525

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And as to the other , I have sent him to yow againe , praying you to
take suerty of him of an hundreth poundes to be forthcoming at any time
when I send for him ; and thereupon to lett him goe at libertye .
CLIFFO,117.058.526

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And as for the fellow ye write to me yee have in prison at Carlile , I
knowe nothing to lay to his charge , CLIFFO,117.058.527

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
for consideringe his late departure from me , assured I am he could not
be at the assault at Carliel . CLIFFO,117.058.528

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And thus hartely fare yee well . CLIFFO,117.058.529

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
From Newborough the last day of March . CLIFFO,117.058.530

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_058:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
T. Norffolke . CLIFFO,117.058.531

<Q_CLI_C_1537_T_T2HOWARD> <L_CLIFFO_059> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_117>

{ED:70_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_10_APRIL_
[1537].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
My very good lord , after my harty comendacions , these shall be to
advertize you that the kinges highnes hath commaunded my lord Darcy ,
Sir Robert Constable and Aske to the Tower for their most heynous and
abominable treason which they conspired to attempt sythence the pardon
, which I signifye unto your lordshipp forasmuch his highnes hath
commaunded me to declare and divulge the same throughout my
leiuetenancye that it is for none old matter before the pardon , but
onely for new conspiracye sithence the same . CLIFFO,117.059.532

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And forasmuch as theis buisines here are somewhat doutfull and not yet
fully stablished , I require you not to fayle but to send your servaunt
unto me to Sheriff Hutton upon Saturday at night by whome I shall
advertize you of more at length . CLIFFO,117.059.533

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And my minde is no wise <paren> although you have the kings lettres to
goe to London </paren> yee shall goe , but to tarry , and in noe wise
to departe out of the country untill yee shall heare <P_118> further
from me in that behaulfe , and that alsoe yee shall signify unto the
people the cause of their apprehension , and that the same is for none
old matter but for new conspiracye sythence the pardon as is aforesaid
. CLIFFO,118.059.534

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
And thus hartely farewell . CLIFFO,118.059.535

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
From Duresme the tenth day of Aprill . CLIFFO,118.059.536

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:64
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:44?
LETTER:CLIFFO_059:E1:1537:COPY:OTHER
Yours assuredly , T. Norffolk . CLIFFO,118.059.537

<Q_CLI_C_1532_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_060> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_121>

{ED:73_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_17_SEPTEMBER
_[1532].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Ryght honourable , hyt maye pleysse your lordshyp to be advertesed that
lyke to your lordshyp commandment I have to my lytle poure attendyt
every thyng as I am of dewtye most boundon for the settyng forwerdes of
your lordshypes tenantes and servantes to serve the kyng . And with in
the offyce I have under your lordshyp hayth apoyntyd <P_122> thre score
suche personages and in such redines as assuredly I dow accompte shall
be to your lordshyps honore . CLIFFO,122.060.538

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And so thowght by Sir Johne Lowther , my cosyn Sandfurthe and Thomas
Falowfelde thys Sonday last apone Sandfurth moyre mustered .
CLIFFO,122.060.539

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Also my cosyn Sandfurthe of your lordshypes tenantes under hys ruylle
makyth xx=ti= and Thomas Falowfelde of hys awne apoyntment xviij .
CLIFFO,122.060.540

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And thus your lordshyp nowmbre is fully furnessyde . CLIFFO,122.060.541

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
For all the resydew within howre offyces , we have gyffyne in your
lordshypes nayme for ther redynes wernyng lyke to your lordshypes
commandment . CLIFFO,122.060.542

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Hyt may pleyss your lordshyp I dyd my selfe accordyng to my dewtye
excercysse sondry days amongst thayme for the preparacion her of
CLIFFO,122.060.543

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
and in vewyng the resydew , wiche assuredly is far furthe of frayme , I
have noted every man your lordshypes tenantes as hys redynes is .
CLIFFO,122.060.544

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And now after the departure of thes , in my poure opynion thayr wolde
by your lordshyp commandment suche a vew be takyn as with the sayme hyt
myght appeyr with ther warrantes of your lordshyp , ther fermes with
the commodytye , theyr gudes and ther redynes to serve the kyng .
CLIFFO,122.060.545

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Ande thus by a perfyt vewe with thayr personages every thyng myght be
orderyt to your lordshypes honore and thayr most surtye .
CLIFFO,122.060.546

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Ande sore I am that I maye not accordyng to my dewtye attend this and
other your lordshyps serwes as I am bowndon , most humble besuchyng
your lordshyp to consydre now my serwes to my lorde frome whome I have
beyne long abcent . CLIFFO,122.060.547

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
And yff ther be any serwes ther or elles wher your lordshyp wyll
commande me , I shall attende the sayme as $knawythe $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu}
who ever preserve your lordshyp with increse of honore .
CLIFFO,122.060.548

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
At my poure howsse of Wharton , the xvij day of Septembre .
CLIFFO,122.060.549

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
Your lordshypes humble att commandment , Thomas Whartton .
CLIFFO,122.060.550

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_060:E1:1532:COPY:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the ryght honorable my lorde of Cumbrelande hys gude
lordshyp . CLIFFO,122.060.551

<Q_CLI_A_1532_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_061> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_123>

{ED:74_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_25_NOVEMBER_
[1532].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesyth hyt your honorable lordshyp to be advertysyd that the cumyng
off Jake was mwche to my lordes plesur and the weneson and wyldfowlle
dyd cum in marwelus good tym to my lord his lordshyp .
CLIFFO,123.061.552

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd oftyn before lowke for sum letteres or word from your lordshyp .
CLIFFO,123.061.553

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Off the nowes occurrant in thes partes , your lordshyp may persave the
sam by my lordes letteres , assuryng your lordshyp that now the
dowynges off the Scotes and that att his and mwst be down agayn to tham
inforceth a grete apperance off werre to insow . CLIFFO,123.061.554

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thare nowmbre was att thare beyng in apon ye Mydle Merches apon
Wedynsday last abowe thre thusand men wyth thre standartes dysplayd as
to say Day Kars , CLIFFO,123.061.555

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the lord of Sesfurth wo his werdayn {ED:warden} by inheretance , allso
the lord off Bukclowthes and the lord off Farneerstes .
CLIFFO,123.061.556

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thankes be to God thare akte was not to the hurt off Yngland a hundreth
merk in all CLIFFO,123.061.557

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yett thare was run thre sewerall forrays , on before day and two
other att towlff off the cloke apon the day leght . CLIFFO,123.061.558

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The same rode was made by the kyng off Scotes commandment
CLIFFO,123.061.559

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for all his offeyceres was wyth hym streght before CLIFFO,123.061.560

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his agayn repared to hym by all espealles . CLIFFO,123.061.561

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We can not attayn but that thay wyll have a greter rod .
CLIFFO,123.061.562

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The c <em> ... </em> dty {ED:PART_OF_THE_WORD_ILLEGIBLE} off Scotland
his hygh agaynst my lord , allbeyt sum thare his howre frendes .
CLIFFO,123.061.563

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thare purpose was to have sett fyer nere the kassell off Anwyke att
this last rode CLIFFO,123.061.564

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fere dyd lett tham CLIFFO,123.061.565

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we er studeyng to make grete rodes as the tymes may serve us .
CLIFFO,123.061.566

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord his now a lytell mowed agayn wyth his hold deses .
CLIFFO,123.061.567

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His lordshyp allways comfordyly to here from your lordshyp and from tym
to tym your lordshypes letteres $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} plesant to
hym CLIFFO,123.061.568

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as I may attayn to the knowlege I shall advertyse and serve as your
lordshyp shall command me accordyng to my most bowndon dwety .
CLIFFO,123.061.569

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The good myrth mayd by Jake and his takyng in to Scotland your lordshyp
may att length persave in wryttyng , wyche was no smalle plesur to my
lord as knowyth the Trenety wo preserve your lordshyp in honor .
CLIFFO,123.061.570

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Att Werkwerth the xxv day off Nowembre . CLIFFO,123.061.571

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord after the makyng of this letter , my lord dyd resave letteres
from the kyng CLIFFO,123.061.572

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now the contentes off this my letter mwst be put in execucion
CLIFFO,123.061.573

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my lord shall ryd by the kynges commandment two or thre rodes in
the marche and Tewedall . CLIFFO,123.061.574

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God and Saynt George send his lordshyp good sped wyth honor .
CLIFFO,123.061.575

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His nowbre $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} xxv=t= <P_124> hundreth men in
gareson bysydes the cuntre whereoff your lordshyp makyth parte
CLIFFO,124.061.576

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet hyt mwst not be knowyn to we inter Scotland yff we may kep hyt
sekeret . CLIFFO,124.061.577

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By your lordshypes ever bowndon att commandment , Thomas Whartton .
CLIFFO,124.061.578

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:37?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:39?
LETTER:CLIFFO_061:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To the ryght honorable and my were good lord my lord
off Cumbreland . CLIFFO,124.061.579

<Q_CLI_A_1533_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_062> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_124>

{ED:75_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_2_MARCH_[153
3].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesyth hyt your lordshyp to be advertysed that syth myn humble
letteres last sent , thare his no nowes worthe advertysement from thes
partes , saveyng the erlle off Mwrray hath beyn in the hede off
Redsdayll and dyd cast off a forray and lay hym sellff apon the heght
off the fell thre mylle from any inhabetyng . CLIFFO,124.062.580

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His forray hath burnt abowt twollff howses wherin was few dwelleres
CLIFFO,124.062.581

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thare was off Scotes takyn seven presoneres CLIFFO,124.062.582

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so $wythowt any tareyng he went away . CLIFFO,124.062.583

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thay off Rydsdayll by my lordes commandment was in Scotland the second
nyght after CLIFFO,124.062.584

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thare burnt two twones and two stedes , CLIFFO,124.062.585

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on town dyd stand wyth in thre mylle off Gedworth where the erlle duth
lye . CLIFFO,124.062.586

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BEGINNING_OF_THE_FOLLOWING_WORD_ILLEGIBLE} <em> ... </em> rsday
next I thynke Sir Rauffe Ellerker and I shall <em> meet with </em> two
knyghtes off the kynges cowncell off Scotland . CLIFFO,124.062.587

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Our metyng </em> hath beyn the longer delayde bycause as hyt $ys
sayde , thay bryng wyth tham instrukcones from the kyng thare $master
{TEXT:mr} by the holle cowncell thare dewysed . CLIFFO,124.062.588

<P_125>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Allso hyt may plese your lordshyp , my lord duth not comford a lytell
in the cumyng off your lordshyp and my lade in to thes partes as his
lordshyp hath consaved att the beyng here off Jake CLIFFO,125.062.589

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and att sondre tymes syth I have by commwnykecion wyth my lord well
persaved the sam CLIFFO,125.062.590

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as off dwety I dyd accowmpte my sellff bowndon , hath made sondre
perswaciones wyth his lordshyp anempst the sam your cumyng , by wyche
hyt may appere a grete loffe and honor that your lordshyp bereth unto
hym . CLIFFO,125.062.591

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thareby I assure your lordshyp for your comyng and my lades , my lord
taketh more comford thar in then I can wrytt CLIFFO,125.062.592

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and {ED:AN_ILLEGIBLE_WORD} tymes spekyth to that effekte .
CLIFFO,125.062.593

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My powre adwyse hys $that your lordshyp wen ye shall cum and my lade
that ye bryng wyth your lordshyp a good and conwenyent nowmbre lyke to
your howshold serwantes fulle and yff hyt wold plese your lordshyp to
adresse your lettere as thogh they were sekeret but yett lett tham or
sum on bee suche as I may show unto my lord , declareng tharein your
lordshypes cumyng lyke a vj or vij dayes before your cumyng and watt
your lordshyp wyll command me in the sam anempst any proweseon for your
men or horses , I shall accordyngly attend to the best off my smalle
powere as off were dwty I am bowndon , as knowyth Jesu wo preserve your
lordshyp in honore . CLIFFO,125.062.594

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordshyp shall here and see mane strange {ED:A_GAP_IN_THE_TEXT}
att your cumyng . CLIFFO,125.062.595

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My comford $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} to see your $lordshyp here .
CLIFFO,125.062.596

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Att the assyses att Yorke I mwst nedes be for $weghty {ED:?} causes off
myn awn . CLIFFO,125.062.597

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I pray God my powre serwes may be allways to your lordshypes
most nobyll contentacion wyche I shall ever attend as
{ED:BREAKS}_CODE_X . CLIFFO,125.062.598

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After the makyng off this letter this Sonday the second day off Marche
, the nowes dyd cum that the sam mornyng by trayn made by the
{ED:AN_ILLEGIBLE_WORD} Rauffe Ellerker , son and heyre to Sir Rauffe ,
Sir Robert Ellerker , Thomas Ellerker and Thomas Menwell kapetayn to my
lord Scrowpp retenow off l men was all fowre taken and wyth tham the
mowmbre off thre scowre and abowe by hastenes and fole abowe West
Nowton in makyng a chays $wythout good order truned {ED:SIC} to
abushement CLIFFO,125.062.599

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on off my lord Scropes retenow his slayn CLIFFO,125.062.600

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the resedow his all in Scotland . CLIFFO,125.062.601

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordshypes awn bowndon att commandment , Thomas Whartton .
CLIFFO,125.062.602

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_062:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To the right honorable my lorde of Cumberland .
CLIFFO,125.062.603

<Q_CLI_A_1533_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_063> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_126>

{ED:76_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_9_DECEMBER_[
1533].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My bowndon dwtye humble advertysed un to your honorable lordshype .
CLIFFO,126.063.604

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesyth hyt you the sam that syth my powre letteres last sent un to
your lordshyp for the nowes occurrant in thes partes , the day off
mareage dyd hold betwen the dwke off Rychemond and the lade now his
wyffe , the day off wyche mareage was not grete saveyng in danceyng ,
CLIFFO,126.063.605

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the quen furst danced wyth the duke and the kyng after wyth the duches
his wyffe and after other as thay were dysposed and then the kyng and
the quen and after my lord Clyfford and a lade CLIFFO,126.063.606

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so passed wyth mwche dansyng and att nyght lykewyse .
CLIFFO,126.063.607

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thay dyd not lye togyther CLIFFO,126.063.608

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thay {ED:AN_ILLEGIBLE_WORD_IN_THE_TEXT} off to bed awlowyng
{ED:SIC} . CLIFFO,126.063.609

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The kyng was there all that tym . CLIFFO,126.063.610

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I saw hyt to the duke was gown to his other logeng and hath ever syth
tym beyn sumthyng seke and kepyth his $chamber by mwche dansyng .
CLIFFO,126.063.611

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The nowes yett er nothyng plesaunt from the partes beyond the see .
CLIFFO,126.063.612

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We shall have a grete parlayment CLIFFO,126.063.613

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hyt his sade that nown $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} abcent that aught
to be here for the surte where off thos that be off the hyyeer {ED:?}
howse hath speciall letteres wereoff your lordshyp hath on .
CLIFFO,126.063.614

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Wedynes day next my lade prynces remowyth to Byshop Haytfeld
CLIFFO,126.063.615

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there settyth upe her howse to the wyche howse shall be broght the
lade Mare . CLIFFO,126.063.616

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The prynces $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} honorable remowed wyth dywers
nobylles as the dwke off Northfolke , the lord marques of Exceter and
other CLIFFO,126.063.617

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the lade Mare $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} brought thether wyth the
erlle off Oxford , the erlle off Sussex , Mr Tresorer and other .
CLIFFO,126.063.618

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The duke of Suffalke shuld have fett the lade Mare CLIFFO,126.063.619

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he hath wyncheyd his leg att the tenes that he may not ryde .
CLIFFO,126.063.620

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The prynces doweger shall have thre thusand merke a yere and therty
persones in her howse . CLIFFO,126.063.621

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lord Wylliam his cum hom CLIFFO,126.063.622

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the byshope off Wynchester his cumyng CLIFFO,126.063.623

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yett we here nothyng but that shypes $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} wyth
artelyre repared and other proweseones {ED:provisions} for the warre .
CLIFFO,126.063.624

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The kyng aukyth att <P_127> the fesand every day and his mere
CLIFFO,127.063.625

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hyt hys thoght the quen bredyth chyld CLIFFO,127.063.626

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and she showeth her Grace so . CLIFFO,127.063.627

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mr Tresorer shepp wyth tempestes sore betyn his cum hom .
CLIFFO,127.063.628

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus my lord I trobyll your lordshyp from tym to tym wyth my rude
wryttyng takyng comford ever in that wyche I thynke may remembre your
lordshype to command that wyche allways may lye in my powre serwes
CLIFFO,127.063.629

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the sam as I am bowndon off dwety $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} rede as
knowyth the Trenety wo preserve your lordshype wyth mwche increce off
honor . CLIFFO,127.063.630

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Att Mr Tresoreres the {ED:v_CANCELLED} ixth day of Decembre .
CLIFFO,127.063.631

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordshypes wyth his serwes , Thomas Whartton . CLIFFO,127.063.632

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:40?
LETTER:CLIFFO_063:E1:1533:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To the ryght honorable my lord off Cumbreland .
CLIFFO,127.063.633

<Q_CLI_A_1534_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_064> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_127>

{ED:77_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_12_DECEMBER_
[1534].}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesyth yt your lordshype to be advertysede that for the newys
occurrant in thes partes , yt ys comfortable in the courtte to her off
the gude redressez downe apon the borders to the gude advancement of
the peax betwen bothe the reallmes . CLIFFO,127.064.634

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande for the newys in Irlande , owre men now haythe gude spede ther .
CLIFFO,127.064.635

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Monye Iryche gentyllmen dowythe come in to the lieutenante ther with
submyssion frome Garratt . CLIFFO,127.064.636

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande our Inglyshmen hade hyme in on chaysse wher the northorun men dyde
verey well ande over threw dyvers of Garrottes power .
CLIFFO,127.064.637

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande the chaysse dyde last sex mylles . CLIFFO,127.064.638

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt plesyde master secretore to shew me the newys CLIFFO,127.064.639

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ande dyde rede Brabsones letter who is treserowr off the werres ther .
CLIFFO,127.064.640

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When the parlament shall breke or what day , at the makyng her off
<P_128> yt was uncertayne . CLIFFO,128.064.641

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wether yt shall desolve or proroge yt is nott certayne
CLIFFO,128.064.642

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but proroge as ytt is sayde . CLIFFO,128.064.643

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ther is grauntyde to the kynge ande on acte mayde that hys grace , hys
heyrez ande successores shall have of every sperituall person after the
dethe , the furst fructes of ther $benefyce $what {TEXT:$benefycewhat}
degre in $spiritualtie {TEXT:spualtie} so ever he be . Ande the tenth
part of every $spirituall {TEXT:spuall} manes lyeffynge yerlye for ever
to be payde . CLIFFO,128.064.644

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande of the temporaltye a subcedye of xijd off the pownde of xxli in
valow of gudes or landes and upwerde to be payde in two yeres at two
paymentes . CLIFFO,128.064.645

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the xvth afor grauntyde to be payde in the thryde yere next after
CLIFFO,128.064.646

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther er monye other actes passede as your lordshyp $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} advertysede in a breffe abstract off the sayme after the
conclusion of thys parlament . CLIFFO,128.064.647

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande yff ther be any serwes that your lordshype wyll commande me , I
shall her attende the sayme acordyng to my bowndon dewtye .
CLIFFO,128.064.648

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande wher yt plesyde your lordeshype to dyrect your honorable letteres
to me , declaryng yor plesur in the sayme upon my former suyt mayde to
your lordshyp for ande consernynge the offyce I have of stewerdeshype
of youre lordshypes landes , I shall eftsons with all convenient spede
advertysse your lordshyp off my suyt lyke to your honourable letteres
sent to me in that sayme . CLIFFO,128.064.649

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The kynge kepythe hys Crystynmes at Grenwyche CLIFFO,128.064.650

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but no hall ther $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} kepyde as yt is sayde .
CLIFFO,128.064.651

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande the saying is that hys grace wyll over see at Apryll wher a metyng
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} hade betwen the Frenche kynge and hyme .
CLIFFO,128.064.652

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Inbassetore {ED:SIC} is goyne with gret intertaynment ande a grett
rewerde . CLIFFO,128.064.653

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt dyde amowntt emongst theyme all xvjth hundrethe pounde besydes
horsez , geldynges and other plesures . CLIFFO,128.064.654

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was the nyght befor hys departor a gret banckett at the Whyt Hall
. CLIFFO,128.064.655

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ande thus our lorde preserve your lordshype in honore .
CLIFFO,128.064.656

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London the xijth day off Decembre by your servant Mr Reydman .
CLIFFO,128.064.657

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have seyne your lordshypes besynes well attendyt her .
CLIFFO,128.064.658

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordshyp att commandment to his power , Thomas Whartton .
CLIFFO,128.064.659

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:41?
LETTER:CLIFFO_064:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To the ryght honorable and my verey gude lorde my lorde
off Cumbrelande . CLIFFO,128.064.660

<Q_CLI_C_1530S?_T_TWHARTON> <L_CLIFFO_065> <A_THOMAS_WHARTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1495?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_129>

{ED:78_THOMAS_WHARTON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_17_JANUARY_{
COM:BLANK}}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Right honorable , pleasithe your lordschipe to be advertessyd that
uppon Fryday at nyght the xiijth of this instant , the kyng of Scottes
dyd cume to a colege callyd Glencloden a mylle frome Dumfresse and is
at this present at Longs Maven cassell . CLIFFO,129.065.661

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Hys cumyng is werie soden CLIFFO,129.065.662

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
and haithe bot a smalle trayn . CLIFFO,129.065.663

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Hys abode thei say wyll not be long CLIFFO,129.065.664

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
bot all his procedynges ar so unsertayn that dowtfull it is to wrytte
off the same . CLIFFO,129.065.665

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
I dow practysse suche esspyall as I can to atteyn knowlege and as the
inportaunce off the same schall occaseon CLIFFO,129.065.666

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
so I schall indevour my selffe to advertesse your lordshipe .
CLIFFO,129.065.667

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Good it is in my powre oppenyon that your lordshype maike your abode at
Skeiptton cassell unto the said kynges departur frome hys marches and
that the poste horses to lie as your lordshipe dyd appoyntte withe me
affore your departor from Brougham CLIFFO,129.065.668

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
and I schall not onlye advertesse your lordshipe bot be moste glade to
dow any thyng I may to your honour as almyghttie God knowithe who
preserve your lordschipe withe muche encresse off the same .
CLIFFO,129.065.669

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Att the kynges highenes cassell of Carlesle the xvijth of Januar .
CLIFFO,129.065.670

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
Your lordshypes att commandment , Thomas Whartton . CLIFFO,129.065.671

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WHARTON:MALE:_:1495?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_065:E1:1530S?:COPY:OTHER
{ED:SUBSCRIBED} To the right honorable and my verey good lord the erle
off Cumbreland . CLIFFO,129.065.672

<Q_CLI_A_1520S?_T_RBELLINGHAM> <L_CLIFFO_066> <A_ROGER_BELLINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_131>

{ED:80_ROGER_BELLINGHAM_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_FRIDAY_BEF
ORE_CHRISTMAS_[1525_X_1533].}

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} CLIFFO,131.066.673

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord , pleysytt your lordshypp to knaw that I have raysavyd on
letter on Fryday last neyxtt be for Crystynmes by Thomas Jonson your
servand from mayster Sir Thomas your brother for the wyche he haythe
wryttyng un to me for a perffytt and a trew rentalle off the holle
extynct off alle my hole landes and to send hym yt with the berrer off
hys letter . CLIFFO,131.066.674

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir at thys tym I culd not send hym yt with the berrer off hys letter
CLIFFO,131.066.675

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I hade no perffytt trew rentale mayd . Wherffor yff yt wylle pleyse
your lordshypp to send over Christoffer Aske or som other off your
cuncele betwyxt thys and the xijth day on to me , that then they shale
have the perffytt and trew rentalle with alle othere thinges att shuld
dow hym gud , CLIFFO,131.066.676

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot I wylle never agre at he shuld partt my landes CLIFFO,131.066.677

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for rather or he shuld dow thatt I wald ryde yett up to London my
selffe . CLIFFO,131.066.678

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Theyr for lett hym keypp hys promes CLIFFO,131.066.679

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I shall keypp myn . CLIFFO,131.066.680

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for the rentale I shall mayk yt reydey . CLIFFO,131.066.681

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No mor to your lordshyp at thys tym bot $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} preserve yow
to hys most plesur . CLIFFO,131.066.682

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Burnesyd thys layst Fryday neyxt be for Crystynmes .
CLIFFO,131.066.683

AUTHOR:ROGER_BELLINGHAM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_066:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours assurethe servand and beydman , Sir Roger Ballengem , knyghtt .
CLIFFO,131.066.684

<Q_CLI_A_1545_T_WBUTTS> <L_CLIFFO_067> <A_WILLIAM_BUTTS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_--->
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_134>

{ED:83_WILLIAM_BUTTS_TO_THE_FIRST_OR_SECOND_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_[24
_JULY,_BEFORE_1545].}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght honourabyll and my synglar goid lord , my dutye humblye to your
goid lordshyppe hadd . CLIFFO,134.067.685

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lekythe it the same to take of your lozenges one every mornyng and one
an ower a for souper and one at your goyng to bedd and so to contynewe
to thei ar don . CLIFFO,134.067.686

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Of the powder to take by the space of one ower a for dyner or
breckfaste the weyght of one grote with aile or beir on to it be don .
CLIFFO,134.067.687

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wyth the oyntement to a noynte the reynes of your backe from your
gyrdylsted downe wardes and the space be twyxte your fundament and
coddes every mornyng and evenyng and to bynde a lynyne cloithe up on
the place a noynted and thus to do ij or iij days to gether , than to
streike of your playster up on a thyne lynyne cloithe after the manner
of ys paper and to applye this playster to your backe a long up on it
from your gyrdelstede <P_135> downe wardes ther , usyng it iiij or v
days . CLIFFO,135.067.688

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After that , retorne to your oyntement usyng it a gen as ye dyd
CLIFFO,135.067.689

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than a gen to use your playster renewyd and so to reverte from the
one to the other on to thei be don CLIFFO,135.067.690

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with dylygent and contynuall use of theise I trust ye shall
perceyve helpe . And myche the soner if your lordshyppe wyll for your
helthe absteyne from all hoite spyces , salte and sweite meetes and
from wynes on lesse it be a drawghte or ij in the myddes of your
refectiones . From wych heite of your backe and from all mocyons that
{ED:?} may put your backe in ony heite and lyeng on the same in your
sleippe , from medycynes for the stone and generally from all swych
thynges as sharply provoke the uryne ; from late souppyng and from
drynckyng or banketyng after souper . CLIFFO,135.067.691

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Use in your brothes borage , letuce , endyve , vyolett levys and
gowldes , prwnes , a few great resynges and sawnders CLIFFO,135.067.692

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and your brothes shall nat be very thycke . CLIFFO,135.067.693

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The herbes shall be bownde hole to gether and nat choppyd .
CLIFFO,135.067.694

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whan ye labur nat greatly ner ryse nat tymely , ij refectiones on the
day is sufficient CLIFFO,135.067.695

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in ony wyse provyde therbe vij oweres be twyxte dener and souper
and ij oweres after your souper or ye go to bedd . CLIFFO,135.067.696

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Easyly to purge your body shuld be very profytable CLIFFO,135.067.697

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I knowe nat your natur suffycyently here . CLIFFO,135.067.698

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This tyme of the {ED:BEGINNING_OF_THE_FOLLOWING_WORD_ILLEGIBLE} <em>
... </em> nyonley days is no assuerd tyme to purge and to attempte
strong medycynes . CLIFFO,135.067.699

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her to for I beseych your lordshyppe to be content with theise thynges
for this tyme assertefyeng me who thei do with yow CLIFFO,135.067.700

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and your lordshyppe shall have my further cownsell with all dylygence
as knowithe God who ever have yow in his twicion to his pleasur .
CLIFFO,135.067.701

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Cambrydge ys Seint James Evyn . CLIFFO,135.067.702

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours assuerd , William Butte . CLIFFO,135.067.703

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Receyved xxs . CLIFFO,135.067.704

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Payed for medycynes ; lozenges ijs iiijd , a playster xxd , a powder
xijd , an oyntement xvjd , summa vjs iiijd CLIFFO,135.067.705

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so rest in my handes xiijs viijd . CLIFFO,135.067.706

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BUTTS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_II[OR_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III]:MALE:_:1493?:52?_CODE
LETTER:CLIFFO_067:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my lorde of Comberland . CLIFFO,135.067.707

<Q_CLI_A_1568_T_JCALFHILL> <L_CLIFFO_068> <A_JAMES_CALFHILL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1530?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1517>

<P_136>

{ED:84_CALFHILL_TO_TH.ECOND_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_28_MARCH_1568.} _@

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My humble dewtie remembrid to your honour . CLIFFO,136.068.708

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wheras I was bold to write unto your l {ED:ordship} as tuching an howse
, which yow do hold of the Deane and Chapitre of Powles in Cred Lane ,
Henry Aykinson your servant sent me in that behalf your l
{ED:ordship's} answere , to this effect , that if I did procure a lease
unto your l {ED:ordship} for lx yeres from the Deane and Chapitre , and
wold be bound upon xiiij daies warning to leve at all tymes the howse
unto your l {ED:ordship's} use , and otherwise contynually reserve a
lodging for your counsel and servantes when thei cum , then culd your l
{ED:ordship} be content to satesfy my desier , for which your curtesy
as my part is , I thank your honor with all my hart ,
CLIFFO,136.068.709

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for the ij later conditions I dare and wil assure them to your l
{ED:ord} , CLIFFO,136.068.710

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but for a lease longer then your lordships own lif wil not in any wise
be grauntid , CLIFFO,136.068.711

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for so I have recevid the determinat answer from the Deane and Chapitre
. In respect wherof if it plese your goodnes to accept my former offer
I will not fayle to recompens as I can the good turn recevid .
CLIFFO,136.068.712

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If yor honour be otherwise resolvid , I am right sory for it
CLIFFO,136.068.713

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wil no further deale in the cawse , but give up again that title
that I have to the Deane and Chapitre CLIFFO,136.068.714

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for so much do I honor your lordships howse that I wil not by law
contend with yow . CLIFFO,136.068.715

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This one thing I must assure your l {ED:ordship} , that if I leve it ,
I shall give place to another which suith for it , which proferith a
large fyne for the leasse and is well able to recover the possession ;
which thing I speke not <paren> God is my witnes </paren> for myn own
cause furthering but only of good will , that I wold not have your l
{ED:ordship} hinderid . CLIFFO,136.068.716

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If your honor wil let me be tenant to yow , yow shal have a lease for
your life tyme , the howse at your commaundment when you will , your
counsel and servantes entertayned alwaies and a further benefit if it
lye in me . CLIFFO,136.068.717

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Only I besech your honor to vouch safe to send me your plesure in
writing by this berer , CLIFFO,136.068.718

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for answer I must give to the Deane and Chapitre before the terme begyn
. CLIFFO,136.068.719

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus wisshing unto your honor long life and health with increse of
honor , I committ yowr l {ED:ordship} to the Almighty .
CLIFFO,136.068.720

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From York the xxviijth of March 1568 . CLIFFO,136.068.721

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your l {ED:ordship} to commaund assuredly , $James Calfehill .
CLIFFO,136.068.722

AUTHOR:JAMES_CALFHILL:MALE:_:1530?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_III:MALE:_:1517:51
LETTER:CLIFFO_068:E1:1568:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honorable and my singuler good lord the
erle off Cumberland give these . CLIFFO,136.068.723

<Q_CLI_A_1536_T_RCARNABY> <L_CLIFFO_069> <A_REYNOLD_CARNABY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_137>

{ED:85_REYNOLD_CARNABY_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_[10_OCTOBER
_1536].}

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Jhesus CLIFFO,137.069.724

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasithe yt your right honorable lordship to be advertisid , my humble
dewty unto the same lowly remembryd . CLIFFO,137.069.725

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Thursday nyt last beyng the vth of this month , I was commanded by
$master {TEXT:mr} lord privay seal in the kynges highnes name in all
hast possible to caws to be sent unto your l {ED:ordship} the kynges
most gracys lettres which I send unto the same herewith like as I have
to be delyvered to my lord of Westmorland and to dyvers other nobles
and gentlemen . CLIFFO,137.069.726

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The caws why I culd nat make so hasty spede as I thought to have done
was for that the comons of Lyncolnshire beyng rebellyd was so sparclyd
abode in companyes severally that I did forbere the comon way which
hyndered me a days jornay . CLIFFO,137.069.727

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And tochyng the contentes of your l {ED:ordes} letteres from the kynges
highnes at this tyme , I make the hast I can towardes Hexham for the
accomplishment of the kynges most dred commandment as far as may ly in
my litle powr to do . Where yf I can do your l {ED:ordship} any servyce
accordyng to my dewty , I shall nat fale to fulfill the same as far as
may ly in me . CLIFFO,137.069.728

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I besich almyghty God to preserve your lordship .
CLIFFO,137.069.729

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In great hast rydyng weryly norwardes , frome Toplif this Tewsday at v
$o $the {TEXT:othe} clok in the mornynge . CLIFFO,137.069.730

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Therles of Shrosbery , Rutland and Hontyngton was at Nottyngham on
Sonday nyt last with a $nomber of men reknyd abowt xl m=le= or above ,
marchyng forward agaynst the kynges rebells . CLIFFO,137.069.731

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The commons of Lyncolnshire which was thought to be abowt Newarkk so
that men <P_138> juges theme to mete abowt Thursday next yf the commons
withdrawe theme nat som other way . CLIFFO,138.069.732

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr l {ED:ordship} humbly with his pore servyce at commandment , R.
Carnaby . CLIFFO,138.069.733

AUTHOR:REYNOLD_CARNABY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:43?
LETTER:CLIFFO_069:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honorable and my synguler god lord my lord
therle of Combeland his good lordship . CLIFFO,138.069.734

<Q_CLI_A_1530S_T_CCRACKENTHORPE> <L_CLIFFO_070>
<A_CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE> <A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_--->
<R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_146>

{ED:92_CRACKENTHORPE_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_7_MAY .}

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Most honoraybyll lordshep , advertyssyng yow that after I come from yow
to London I was ther vij days after wych tyme $in the matter in
contencion betwyxt Sir Thomas Wharton and me , a grement of metyng was
movyd by on $Master {TEXT:Mr} Doctor Bellowes wych is gretly twoart my
lord privy sell . And so browght us to gether in Stepnay chyrch
CLIFFO,146.070.735

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then Mr Wharton laid thes artykylles a ganst me ;
CLIFFO,146.070.736

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fyrst how good he was in the conclusion of a marag betwyn his cossyng
Sandson and me . CLIFFO,146.070.737

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how he put me to the kynges servyce by his wrytyng and instrucion
. CLIFFO,146.070.738

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how onkyndly we that longyth to yow was to Gylbert Wharton , his
kyn and $frendes and that he culd gyt no $replevine nor justes in the
cuntry . CLIFFO,146.070.739

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how crowally I delyveryd his servantes wrytynges for Ric' Lame
that arranat trator whom ye soltyd sore . And when I had beyn with hym
xiiij daies in Scotland and I wold not mak <P_147> hym privy to them .
CLIFFO,147.070.740

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how the abbot of Holme shuyd hym I occopyed the farmald of Hayll a
ganst his wyll and wol gyff hym no gryssom , nor I wold not tak it .
CLIFFO,147.070.741

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how he devyssyd the said abbot for to send me word to take it or
elles to be dysschargyt off it . And what shuld he doo bot take it when
I wold not tak it and so as he says hays done for fowrescore yere and
xix . CLIFFO,147.070.742

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item how I occopied the said farmyng a ganst his wyll .
CLIFFO,147.070.743

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Item how my lord Clefford wore me as his servand and that I wore his
leveray contrayry my othe to the kyng . CLIFFO,147.070.744

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item that I shuld say what was he cum of bot oder was as good as he .
And that I trystyyd too se hym as lowe as {ED:hys_h.._CANCELLED} he was
hye . CLIFFO,147.070.745

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soe I had slanderyd hym a fore the kynges concell .
CLIFFO,147.070.746

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al this artykylles he laid a ganst me . CLIFFO,147.070.747

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo no forther order or $grement culd we goo to at that tym .
CLIFFO,147.070.748

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thene immedyatly I went to my lord of Northfolke who laid at
Kennengayll in Northfolke . CLIFFO,147.070.749

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And with hym I was very well acceptyd in al my byssynes
CLIFFO,147.070.750

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and caussyd me to tarry with hym from Palm Sonday tyll now that he come
to London wych was on Sanct Elyng day . CLIFFO,147.070.751

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And all that space I was in hys howsse very mych maid off and wonderus
well intretyd . CLIFFO,147.070.752

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And not dowttyng by hys good helpe I tryst too procede .
CLIFFO,147.070.753

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alsso on Setterday last a fore the dait of this I met with Mr Wharton
CLIFFO,147.070.754

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dyd my dewty to hym CLIFFO,147.070.755

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he said he had no god denynges unto me . CLIFFO,147.070.756

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus hettfully and rygorusly he handylles me with owt any causse ,
CLIFFO,147.070.757

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot that is long off hym selff . CLIFFO,147.070.758

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alsso as it is said he hays gottyng the ruyll off all the Grames from
Sir $Wylliam Musgrave . CLIFFO,147.070.759

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hertyest I besyche $Jhesu {TEXT:Jhu} have yor honoraybyll
lordshepe in hys tuyssyon . CLIFFO,147.070.760

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyng at London the vijth day of May . CLIFFO,147.070.761

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours ever , Cristoper Crakanthorppe . CLIFFO,147.070.762

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_CRACKENTHORPE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_070:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right honoraybyll and my synguler good lord , my
lord of Cumberland delyver this . CLIFFO,147.070.763

<Q_CLI_A_1526_T_CDACRE> <L_CLIFFO_071> <A_CHRISTOPHER_DACRE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_149>

{ED:94_DACRE_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_2_JANUARY_[15
26_OR_1535].}

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord in humbull maner I command to yowr lordcheppe .
CLIFFO,149.071.764

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleaseth yowr lordcheppe I resowytt yowr wryttyng yesterdaye delyvered
to me be yowr servand Thomas Sottell wheyr in yowr sayd lordcheppe
wylleth and desyreth me to send to yow the bowkkes of acomppte of the
lordscheppe of Peynreth Qwene Hames with the members for ij or iij
yeres last past . CLIFFO,149.071.765

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord , of vere trewyth and fydelyte , I never dyd intermell with one
maner of the bowkkes of acomppttes of the sayd lordcheppes
CLIFFO,149.071.766

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor were noyn of the sayd bowkkes of acompptes come to my custodye .
CLIFFO,149.071.767

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In contenement {ED:?} after the resayet of yowr sayd wryttyng , I send
to my lord Dacre awdetor for the sayd bowkkes at yowrkes of acomppte of
the lordscheppe of Peynreth Qwene Hames with the members for ij or iij
yeres last past . CLIFFO,149.071.768

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord , of vere trewyth and fydelyte , I never dyd intermell with one
maner of the bowkkes of a comppttes of the sayd lordcheppes
CLIFFO,149.071.769

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor were noyn of the sayd bowkkes of acompptes come to my custodye .
CLIFFO,149.071.770

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In contenement {ED:?} after the resayet of yowr sayd wryttyng , I send
to my lord Dacre awdetor for the sayd bowkkes at yowr lordcheppe mygth
haffe theym acordyng to yowr sayd wryttyng . CLIFFO,149.071.771

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The answeyr of the sayd awdetor I send yowr lordcheppe heyr in <P_150>
cloysset , besechyng yowr lordcheppe to take no dyspleasor nor thynke
no delaye in me CLIFFO,150.071.772

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I wyll be glayd to acompleysse yowr lordcheppe desyer in that or
ane other thyng at lyes in me to do as owr lord knawes who preserve
yowr gowd lordcheppe to yowr herthes most comforth . CLIFFO,150.071.773

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Cerlyell the ij daye of Januarij . CLIFFO,150.071.774

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours at my lytell power , Crystofer Dacre . CLIFFO,150.071.775

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_071:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my synguler gowd lord of Comberland hys gowd
lordcheppe . CLIFFO,150.071.776

<Q_CLI_A_1530S_T_WMUSGRAVE> <L_CLIFFO_072> <A_WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1509?> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_167>

{ED:111_WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_31_JULY_[
1536_X_1539].}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord , as my most assuryd gud lord under the kyng , I have me
recommendyt unto your gud lordshyp . CLIFFO,167.072.777

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wher as to my puer I have alway intendyt faythfully to be yours , I
besych your lordshyp to accompt in me the saym duryng my lyf .
CLIFFO,167.072.778

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And vere gladly wold I see your lordshyp CLIFFO,167.072.779

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now my intent is , God willyng , to remeyn as nygh your lordshyp or
my lord your son as I may , redy to doy {ED:SIC} your servyce and
plesur . CLIFFO,167.072.780

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For of trewth I had bene with your l {ED:ordship} bi now but for sundry
complayntes whych was mayd unto the kyng is hyghnes both-2 agaynst me
and Jak Musgrave , the whych the kyng hym sylf opynyd unto me vere sore
. Albeyt hys grace sayd he wolld be my gud lord and pardon both Jak
Musgrave and me . CLIFFO,167.072.781

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therin my sewt was to hys grace to trye me beffor hys counsell ,
whych hys grace promest me within iij days , wherupon hym sylf cawsyd
the counsell to call both Jak Musgrave and me beffor them .
CLIFFO,167.072.782

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wher as we found my lord privy seall speshall gud lord unto us in our
declarasyon , whych I am not able to desserve unto hym wheles I lev .
To rehers every manys part her , yt wer to tedyus for your l
{ED:ordship} , CLIFFO,167.072.783

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fynally I am in better favour then {in}_P ever I was in all my lyf
with the kyng and my lord privy seall and all other the kyngs counsell
except my lord of Northfolk whych ever will love a Dacre ;
CLIFFO,167.072.784

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but therin he can not hurt me now as at my comyng unto your lordshyp ye
shall at length perceyv more playnly . CLIFFO,167.072.785

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now the kyng upon the trewth known of my declaracion hath commandyt
me to mayk my bill of ony resonable thyng CLIFFO,167.072.786

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shall have yt in short tym dyspachyd CLIFFO,167.072.787

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that I shuld tary ther for . CLIFFO,167.072.788

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My sylf and lykwys Jak Musgrave shall have xx li more for term of hys
lyf CLIFFO,167.072.789

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and her ys the cawse of my taryeng all together , CLIFFO,167.072.790

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but and yt {ED:SIC} cum not shortly , I will not tary long her to gyt a
mor proffyt . CLIFFO,167.072.791

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that our lord knowth who ever kep your lordshyp and all yours in
<P_168> mych honour long to prosper . CLIFFO,168.072.792

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyn at my pure howse in London thys Saynt Peter Evyn .
CLIFFO,168.072.793

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordshyp is assuryd , William Musgrave K. CLIFFO,168.072.794

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_MUSGRAVE:MALE:_:1509?:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_072:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my ryght honourable lord yerull of Cumberlond .
CLIFFO,168.072.795

<Q_CLI_B_1526_T_GTHOMPSON> <L_CLIFFO_073> <A_GEORGE_THOMPSON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_176>

{ED:119_THOMPSON_OF_DONCASTER_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_[
1526_OR_1527].}

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Jhesus CLIFFO,176.073.796

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght honorabyll lord erell of Comberland , I Gorge Tomson sertyfyng
yowr lordshep of a sarwand at was my lord $Perse called Rolland Qwarton
wych is departed on Sent Marke day to Almyghty God whose sowlle $Jhesu
{TEXT:Jhu} hafe mercy a pon . Hys body remanyng in the Whyte Frers
cherch in Doncaster . CLIFFO,176.073.797

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr lordshep sertyfyng my lord Perse of yowr letter that yowr lordshep
hasse . Shewyng yowr lordshep that a blake horse with a whyte rake and
a whyte tepe of the nose and a whyte saddell of bivfe lether with a
blake harnes pertenyng to the sayme wych the proctor of Doncaster hasse
resawed for hys mortuary called Master Worrall dwellyng in the parsoneg
of Doncaster . CLIFFO,176.073.798

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hafe bene with hym shewyng hym that the horse is my lord Perses , the
brydell and saddell , he makyng me answere that I shwld hafe the horse
yf I wold of my credans , I makyng hym a nanswer I wold not mell with
the horse to yowr lordshep mayd a nanswer whether the horse be my lord
Perses or no . CLIFFO,176.073.799

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sertyfyng yowr lordshep that $apperell that was of hys body remanyng in
hys oste howse at the Fawcon in Doncaster whose nam is called John
Balland beyng in hys purse of money and gold xxiiijs and iijd and on
ryng of gold wych remaneth in the handes of Sir John Drenkall the
parich prest of Doncaster and <P_177> on bowke called of gold , the
wych remaneth in the handes of the pryor of the Whyte Frers of
Doncaster . Yowr lordshep sertyfyng my lord Perse yowr brother whether
thys ryng and bowke be my lord Perses or no . Wher of is lad forth for
his beryall xxs and so the resedew remanyng in the parich prest handes
wych as Master Dene beyng vycar of Doncaster hafe comanded hym for to
kep it styll and so to make a nynvinytore of the same . Yowr lordshep
sertyfyng my lord Perse whether thes persel beyng hys lordshepes or hys
awne . CLIFFO,177.073.800

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No more unto yowr honorabyll lordshep at this tym bot $Jhesu hafe yowr
lordshepe in his kepyng . CLIFFO,177.073.801

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amen . CLIFFO,177.073.802

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By your pore bedman , Gorge Tomson . CLIFFO,177.073.803

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} Thys letter be delyvered unto the ryght honorabyll lord
erell of Comberland lyeng at hys lordshep manner of
{ED:AN_WORD_IN_THE_TEXT}_CODE_NP in Crawen CLIFFO,177.073.804

AUTHOR:GEORGE_THOMPSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:33?
LETTER:CLIFFO_073:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ys letter be dalyvered in hast . CLIFFO,177.073.805

<Q_CLI_A_1520S_T_CWATSON> <L_CLIFFO_074> <A_CLEMENT_WATSON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_177>

{ED:120_WATSON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_7_JUNE_[1525_X_ 1527].}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honourable myn $esspecall and singuler good lorde , after full
humble recommendacion unto your good lordeship , humbly thanking your
lordeship for your honourable rewarde sent unto me by my felowe Robert
Wharton , undeserved , but with my prayer and poor service .
CLIFFO,177.074.806

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Accompting my self $specally bounden therunto my life during , withoute
that your lordeship at any tyme shulde unto me geve suche rewarde .
CLIFFO,177.074.807

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For it wer but my duety if I couth doe myche moor , beseching your
lordeship to take and esteme the same noon otherwise .
CLIFFO,177.074.808

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mi lorde , your deligent servantes Mr Blenkensop and Thomas Stirke have
not for any payn or laubor to thaym possible pretermitted to avaunce
your causes and busynesses her as to thair duetyes doth <P_178>
apperteyne . CLIFFO,178.074.809

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howe be it , some parte therof as yet canne nor may take soe breve
perfeccion as necessary wer , oonles my lordes grace wer at some better
laiser and moor regardeth the same thenne he yet doth .
CLIFFO,178.074.810

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles my maister haith remembred his said grace therof , delayed
as yet , as other my maisters oune causes be . CLIFFO,178.074.811

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maister repaireth to the courte this next wook {ED:SIC} wher my
lordes grace $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} , as thenne your causes $will $be
{TEXT:wolbe} putte in remembraunce which I shall not faill to call upon
my maister for , God willing , whoe ever moor preserve youe myn
esspecall and singuler good lorde . CLIFFO,178.074.812

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Saint James in the Feilde besides Westmynster the vijth day of June
. CLIFFO,178.074.813

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your lordeships daily bedeman and poor servant , Clement Watson .
CLIFFO,178.074.814

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_074:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the $right honourable , myn esspecall $and singuler
good Therle of $Comberlande , warden of the West Marche of Einglande
for anenste Scottelande be this deliverde . CLIFFO,178.074.815

<Q_CLI_A_1520S_T_CWATSON> <L_CLIFFO_075> <A_CLEMENT_WATSON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_CLIFFORD_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1493?>

<P_178>

{ED:121_WATSON_TO_THE_FIRST_EARL_OF_CUMBERLAND,_31_OCTOBER_[152
5_X_1527].}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honourable myn esspecall and singuler good lorde , after mooste
humble recommendacion unto your good lordeship , pleas it the same to
wete , that by your discrete servante , Mr Twhaites , I received youre
right honourable letter to me , your mooste humble bedeman , directed ,
with a riall in goolde therynne cloosed , whiche accoording to the
purpoorte of youre saide letter , I received as I have doon many other
your bounteous rewardes and charitable dedes to me shewed . Withoute
<P_179> that I am able to deserve the same , but to God for recompence
I shall daily pray . CLIFFO,179.075.816

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where ye be desirous to knowe after what soorte my maister received
your lordeships letter to hym directed , for notice wherof , truste
veraily my lorde , that right thankfully the same was accepted and
taken and not a litle to his singuler pleasure and contentacion ,
wherby ye have bounden hym to shewe mutuell correspondence of kyndenes
with suche pleasure as may lye in his power as I doubte not shall and
woll evidentely apper in all youre good causes . Immediately upon the
receipt of your lordeships saide letter and the contentes therof red
and perused , soe farre as touched hym self concernyng your lordeships
pleasaunt and honourable writing , he cutte awaye because he wolde
shewe the reste therof to sondery of the counsaill , saying ' a man may
fare well if he crye it not at the crosse ' . CLIFFO,179.075.817

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The residue of your newes therynne conteynned did marvelously well
content and pleas hym with other your doinges upon the bordours ,
declaring the high service your lordeship have doon , couth and mought
doe , wherupon reapoorte $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} made unto the kingges
highnes and to my lorde legates grace in breve tyme . Whiche doon I
shall endevour me after knowlege had , to advertise your lordeship of
the specalties therof with suche other newes as shall occurre here
frome tyme to tyme . CLIFFO,179.075.818

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As yet I canne not fynde tyme propice for thattaynnyng of the bookes of
accomptes concernyng my lordes graces houshoolde , by reason of our
shorte and sklender aboode in any place , remaynnyng here not above vj
or vij dayes , being otherwise occupyed as youre lordeship canne
consider , having many and sondery busynesses , my maister apt and
prone therunto whoe to suche as be ner aboute hym woll make fewe
holidayes . CLIFFO,179.075.819

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Notwithstanding , after oure retorne frome oute of the North partes I
shall indevour me with celeritie to depeche the same unto youre
lordeship . CLIFFO,179.075.820

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And eftesoones for your manifoolde benevolence and gratuites to me
shewed , I as a poor man may render as unto myn esspecall and singuler
good lorde my mooste cordiall and humble thankes and gramerces , daily
praying unto Almighty God for the preservacion of youre good lordeship
with thencreace of moche honour . CLIFFO,179.075.821

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Pountefret the laste daye of October . CLIFFO,179.075.822

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre bounden bedeman with my humble service , Clement Watson .
CLIFFO,179.075.823

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_WATSON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_CLIFFORD_II:MALE:_:1493?:_
LETTER:CLIFFO_075:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} Unto <em> the right </em> honourable myn $esspecal and
singuler good lord $the erle of Comberlande , vice-warden of the West
Marches of Einglande for anenst Scottelande . CLIFFO,179.075.824
