<B_EDMONDE>

<Q_EDM_C_1592_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_001> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_9>

{ED:IV._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_WILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor L=o= albeitt I hope yor L. hath receaved myn of the
23=th= and 27=th= of the last moneth , sent by Thomas the French Cooke
yet because of the dangerous passage of the waves I thought it my
duetie herew=th= to send yor L a double hereof . EDMONDE,9.001.1

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The 29=th= also , I wrote unto yor L a fewe other lynes signifying the
accident of the Marshall Byron 's deathe , the w=ch= for that I was
then forced to comitt to the hazard of an unknown messenger , and so
haue cause to doubt , howe the same is come to yor L=s= handes , I will
p~sume to trouble yor L w=th= the reitheration thereof .
EDMONDE,9.001.2

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The Kinge after having that night supped , and the Prince of Anhalt
w=th= him went <paren> attended onlie by gentellmen </paren> to take a
viewe of Esp~nay , for the making of his approaches , and placing of
his battrye . EDMONDE,9.001.3

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The Marshall of Byron having supped later then he , followed thither
some tyme after after him accompanied with Monsr. Marryvault , on the
w=ch= his waie approching the Towne he was shott w=th= a faulcon
through the hedde whereof he p~sentlie dyed , and Monsr Marryvault that
accompanied him striken also herew=th= on the side <paren> after <P_10>
it had so passed through the Marshall </paren> but his hurte verie
smale . EDMONDE,10.001.4

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Both the King and the Cort here uppon the newnes of the accydent were
verie passionatt for the same , EDMONDE,10.001.5

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
but the lamentacion lasted not longe EDMONDE,10.001.6

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
and there were fewe w=ch= upon could bloode , did not esteeme it a
verie happie blowe in respect of his declyning in weakness , and being
unsupportable in his humors , besides other considerations best known
to yor L . EDMONDE,10.001.7

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The King meaneth as by my said letter I signified to yor L to lett the
place dye , EDMONDE,10.001.8

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
and his sonne who in the opinion of the world was like to have carried
it , doth content himself w=th= the Admyralshyppe , in respect of the
better profit thereof . EDMONDE,10.001.9

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The Kinge nowe desireth w=ch= is the substance of his despatch to his
Ambr to receaue her ma=es= advice whom he should emploie for head into
Bryttaunye being desirous to send such a one as maie be agreable to her
likinge . EDMONDE,10.001.10

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
He saied to me he knew her ma=tie= could best like , that the Marshall
of Boullion went thither , but that his necessitie of the use of him
was such as he could not spare him from about himselfe , and looking to
these ap~tes . EDMONDE,10.001.11

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
It is thought the Duke of Bouillion shall nowe whollie remaine w=th=
the Kinge , and the charge of this Country be contynued in the Duke of
Nevers . EDMONDE,10.001.12

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
He tould me further that the Barron of Byron was desirous to goe
thither , EDMONDE,10.001.13

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
but for that he is careful to send such a one as shall agree with our
nation , he resolueth rather to send Monsr. St luc , whom he holdeth to
be of great temperancie and judgement to be lieutenant to the Prince
Dombes , whom he thinketh to be fittest to contynue <paren> w=th= that
establishment </paren> for cheif there . EDMONDE,10.001.14

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
We are here lodged on the ryuer a league aboue Esp~nay attending the
coming of the bridge of boates from Challons and the force w=ch= the
Kinge hath sent for , out of Pycardie , and other p~tes , before the
arryvall whereof I thincke we shall not passe the ryuer ; though the
bridge doe presentlie come . EDMONDE,10.001.15

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The Reyters doe this daie dep~te , refuseing to staie the end of this
action here EDMONDE,10.001.16

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
and the Marshall of Boullion doth conduct them to the Frontere :
EDMONDE,10.001.17

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
And as I formerlie advertised yor L. the Kinge staieth <P_11> 6 or of
them and Lansquenettes to remaine w=th= Monsr Chomberg : who the other
daie needed that fortifying , when his people passinge from his quarter
to Joine w=th= the campe on the remoue mett with those of
Chasteautyerry and had his six mules of Baggage taken by them , wherein
besides his plate and other furniture , he lost crownes in money ,
esteeming his losse on the whole betweene 6 and crownes .
EDMONDE,11.001.18

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The King is this daie adv~tised out of ffranche Conte , that there is
come thether passing hitherwards from the Kinge of Spayne two myllions
sent for the enterteinement of the warres in this realme and the lowe
Countries . EDMONDE,11.001.19

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
He that geiueth this advice , putteth him in hoape of intercepting it ,
EDMONDE,11.001.20

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
if it will please the King to geiue order he maie be assisted by the
garrisons in those p~tes . EDMONDE,11.001.21

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
There is of late a greate quarrell fallen oute betweene the Duke of
Lorayne and the towne of Strasbourg , about the ellection of the
Buishopp of that place , the p~testant cannons <paren> who are double
as manie voices as the other side </paren> having chosen a sonne of the
Marquis of Brandeburg , and the Papistes the Cardinall of Lorrayne the
Duke 's youngest sonne for whose establishment the father meaneth to
emploie himself and his forces wch will dyvert him for the tyme from
these p~tes . EDMONDE,11.001.22

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
It is here intended verie shortlie to send the Cardinall of Gondi and
the Marquis of Pizanny to Rome . EDMONDE,11.001.23

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Their negociation is kept verie seacrett . EDMONDE,11.001.24

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Some iudge it to be in favour of the peace . EDMONDE,11.001.25

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
The King hath geiven order for the assemblie of all the forces of
Normandie under the conduct of the Counte S=t= Pol to make hedd to the
Duke of Maine there . EDMONDE,11.001.26

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Tomorrow or the next daie he intendeth to goe himself to Challons , to
p~cure their p~romised contribution of monie , to make an imp~rt unto
his Swisses . EDMONDE,11.001.27

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Marell the second of July
1592 . EDMONDE,11.001.28

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Yor l. most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,11.001.29

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
As I had fynished this letter the King receaued advertisement from
langres that the Duke of Lorrayne is retourned to the seige of
chasteauvillan and out of Normandie from Monsr le Grand of the <P_12>
beseiging of Kilbeuf : EDMONDE,12.001.30

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
ffor the helpe of the first he hath taken the best order he can ,
EDMONDE,12.001.31

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
and for the latter he doth presentlie send Monsr S=t= luc to assist to
the relief of the same . EDMONDE,12.001.32

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Herew=th= he is also advertised out of Languedoc that the gentellmen of
that countrie , being uppon an enterprise for the surprizing of lantrec
, a Towne wch is of the antient revennue of the house of Nauarra , were
betrayed by a counter practise of the enemie and so divers of the
nobylitie there lost , in attempting the execution thereof .
EDMONDE,12.001.33

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Monsr Luxembourg also p~sentlie come hither to demand the place of
Marshall , EDMONDE,12.001.34

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
but there is no opinion that he shall carrie the same EDMONDE,12.001.35

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
I know not what will become of our seege here for lacke of men to
p~fourme the same . EDMONDE,12.001.36

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
LETTER:EDMONDE_001:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
To the right honourable the Lord Burghley Lord High Thre~r of England .
EDMONDE,12.001.37

<Q_EDM_C_1592_T_WCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_002> <A_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1520> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_21>

{ED:VIII._WILLIAM_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Sr. I haue noe newe Cawse to write vnto yowe , but havinge offer made
vnto mee by the ffrenche Ambassado=r= to send to the k .
EDMONDE,21.002.38

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
I cowld not forbeare to write a fewe Lines vnto yowe aduertising yowe
as I did by my late letters that the staie of the sending of the forces
promised to the k: to goe into Britaigne , hath been by reason hir
Ma=tie= neuer hath had answeare from the k. to the Condicon~s required
by hir Ma=tie= , and sent by Mons=r= Sancy , w=ch= the Ambassado=r=
heare , doth dailie also looke <P_22> for . EDMONDE,22.002.39

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
what the k. doth theare wee neaver heare anie thing , but flieing tales
, wishing the time that he spendeth theare in Champaigne , he would
have spent yt in Britaigne , wheare his greatest danger is .
EDMONDE,22.002.40

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
I wrote latelie vnto yowe that I had warrant to paie yowe during the
time of yo=r= attendance theare after xx=s= the daie , w=th=-1 I would
pay to anie whome by yo=r= warrant yowe would assigne heare .
EDMONDE,22.002.41

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
It is a longe time since I receiued anie letters from yowe , althowgh I
dowbt not but yowe haue written frequentlie , w=ch= I feare haue
miscaried by the waie , as sum of mine perchance also haue done that
haue been sent vnto yowe , w=ch= must be a fortune common to vs all .
EDMONDE,22.002.42

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Soe fare yowe well . EDMONDE,22.002.43

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
ffrom the Co=r=t at Nonsuch this viij of August 1592 .
EDMONDE,22.002.44

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= verie Loving frend W. Burghley To my Loving frend M=r= Thomas
Edmondes remaining in ffrance w=th= the ffrenche k: for hir Ma=ties=
affayres . EDMONDE,22.002.45

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:72
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:28?
LETTER:EDMONDE_002:E2:1592:COPY:OTHER
<font> Pour Mons=r= Edmondes estant pres le Roy pour les affaires de la
Royne d'Ang=re= . </font> EDMONDE,22.002.46

<Q_EDM_C_1593_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_003> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_105>

{ED:XLVII._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_WILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor L. yor l. letter of the fifth hereof I haue receiued
, wherein it pleaseth yor l <paren> to my greate greif </paren> to
signifie her ma=t=~ offence against me for the long staie of my
answeare to yor l former letters : That I gaue not notice for the
embarquing of the Troupes uppon the Kinges refusall of her Ma=t=~
demande , according to my comandement and that I used yor l. name in
speache to the K: EDMONDE,105.003.47

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
I am most sorie that such is my unhappines to beare the pennance of
others faulte wch I had not incurred , but kept myself to the precise
obseruation of whatt I was comanded , if I could haue drawne the K: to
thatt conformetie . EDMONDE,105.003.48

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
ffor first having dealt wth him imediatelie uppon the receipt of yor l.
letter , I could not obteyne of him <paren> for that he was in his
remoue from ffountainebleau to Chartres </paren> to make his dispatch
untill he came to Chartres , EDMONDE,105.003.49

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
and yor l. knoweth there was a necessitie that I should not send awaie
my letters wthout his . EDMONDE,105.003.50

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And for the second I p~test to yor l. I could not p~sse him more then I
did for his leaue & order for the passing awaie of her ma=t=~ Troupes &
Cannon to the wch he would not assent in hoape that when her ma=tie=
should have heard the reasons of his excuse , she would have ben
pleased to haue changed that resolution , EDMONDE,105.003.51

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
and therefore forced to make a vertue of necessitie I was constrained
to yeald to that wch I could not otherwise remedie , for that it was to
noe pourpose wthout such order , to haue written to S=r= Edw: Brooke .
EDMONDE,105.003.52

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And for the last my speache was that I had receiued letters from yor l.
signifying her ma=t=~ pleasure &c and noe otherwise , wherein if I
erred , being out of Ignerance and the twoe former , so occasioned by
constraincte : I most humblie beseech yor l. to be a meanes unto her
ma=tie= to be pleased to remitt the faulte thereof , and that where I
p~test I faile not in the duetie of my best dilligence in the measure
of my poore abyllitie , that the same maie pleade my p~don .
EDMONDE,105.003.53

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Her ma=tie= maie also impute the like blame to me for the delaie of the
answeare for Brytannie , EDMONDE,105.003.54

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
but it hath not ben possible for me to use more <P_106> importunitie
then I haue donne therein , and haue staied this dispatch these four or
fyve daies uppon the p~mises wch haue ben daylie made me thereof wch
not being yett readie <paren> so much doth the same trouble them
</paren> I thought good in the meane tyme to send awaie these .
EDMONDE,106.003.55

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And herewth yor L. shall receiue a Coppie of the declaration wch I haue
delyuered in wryting of her ma=t=~ pleasure in that behalf ,
EDMONDE,106.003.56

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
wthin 2 or 3 daies yor L. shall not faile to receiue the answeare .
EDMONDE,106.003.57

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
The K: nowe drawinge downe to Deepe & finding both-1 by my relateon and
his Ambrs letters , her ma=t=~ resolutte pourpose to wthdrawe p~sentlie
her Troupes : desiring first to be assisted by them in this action hath
written his letters to the Comandor of Deepe for their staie , till his
comeinge and p~ssed me verie earnestlie to haue aduanced before to haue
dealt to that end with S=r= Edward Brooke , EDMONDE,106.003.58

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
but I refused him therein or to write to S=r= Edw. Brooke to doe
otherwise then his comandement from her ma=tie= doth beare .
EDMONDE,106.003.59

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Since my last , of the newes out of Itallie , we haue gathered a litle
newe courage , that the hoape of a peace is not yett desperatt , for
that the Pope hath underhand geiuen to understand to some of the Kinges
seruants at Rome that he dareth not as yett to p~ceade in other
demonstrations towardes the Kinge , untill he haue some better
aduantage ouer his enemies , to beare him out against the greatnes of
Spayne , and therefore aduising him to looke to the accomodating of his
affaires . That also the President Janin wth the Barron of Senecy and
Cardynall Joyeuse who are sent from the Duke of Mayne and but newlie
dep~ted , being not yett arryued , the Pope was not yet to show other
then soure countenance to the Duke of Neuers , wth manie other like
flatteries of seacrett assurance . EDMONDE,106.003.60

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Vytry hath this daie written to the K: from Paris that by letters
newlie come out of Spayne , the Kinge of Spayne hath disavowed his
mynisters at Paris , in the p~mise made by them of the Infante in
marriage to the Duke of Guise . EDMONDE,106.003.61

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Monsr Sancy is retourned from the Duke of Lorrayne wth noe effect of
his negotiation , but faire p~mises of well doinge , when he shall see
howe the others will gouuerne themselfes , wch is interp~ted that if
the others doe nothing he will doe as litle . EDMONDE,106.003.62

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
About Laval in Brytannie , the enemie hath notwthstanding the Truce
defeated of the Kinges people , and Comitted great cruelties uppon them
. EDMONDE,106.003.63

<P_107>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Hereinclosed yor L. shall receiue an abstract of newes sent hither of
the Turckes p~ceadinges . EDMONDE,107.003.64

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And where yor L. requyreth to be aduertised of what great p~sonages
{of} our court is variablie compounded : It is a thing verie casuall
and often of verie short contynuance but at this tyme extraordinary
having for ladyes madame the K 's sister , the Duchesse of Neuers the
Duchesse of Retz and madame de Rohan , And for great men the Duke
Longeville the Count S=t= Paul , the Duke of Bouillon , The Admyrall ,
The Duke Mombasson , Monsr d'Escars , Monsr Chasteauvieulx capten of
the scottishe gard nowe in quarter Monsr de Roquelaure master of the
wardrobbe Monsr de Mongriyon , The Marquis of Myrebeau , the sonnes of
Rochefoucault and Jarnac wth infinitt other gentellmen .
EDMONDE,107.003.65

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Monsr Mompensier goeth from hence to Caen to houlde there the assemblie
of the States of Normandie and afterwardes fourthwth to retourne .
EDMONDE,107.003.66

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Monsr le Grand is at Tours in poursuit of a wief , the sole daughter of
Monsr de ffountaine that was gouuernor of St Malo . EDMONDE,107.003.67

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Andely the 18th of Octobr
<font> 1593 </font> . EDMONDE,107.003.68

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
yor L. most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,107.003.69

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Her ma=ties= letters haue p~cured Monsr de Mony much fauor from the
Kinge and he p~tending neuer to have had anie ill thought of him ,
EDMONDE,107.003.70

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
but what I formerly wrote of his speache to me is true .
EDMONDE,107.003.71

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_003:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable my singuler good lord the lord Burghley lord
high Thr~er of England . EDMONDE,107.003.72

<Q_EDM_A_1593_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_004> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_114>

{ED:LI._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=Edmondes . EDMONDE,114.004.73

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Q. hauing heard at lardg Monsieur Beringham , and hauing also heard
y=e= k. embassadeur in diuers Propositions made to her on y=e= k 's
behalf , hath caused them to be answered by y=e= lts and others whose
hands ar here vnder wrytten EDMONDE,114.004.74

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
you shall therfor do well to <P_115> Impart it to y=e= k .
EDMONDE,115.004.75

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as you fynd him like or mislike it so to aduertise ,
EDMONDE,115.004.76

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus in hast I comitt you to Gods Protection . EDMONDE,115.004.77

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From y=e= Court this 13 of 9bre 1593 EDMONDE,115.004.78

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr louing freend Ro: Cecyll . EDMONDE,115.004.79

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
LETTER:EDMONDE_004:E2:1593:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my louing friende M=r= Thomas Edmondes her Ma=tes= Agent w=th= the
fr: king . EDMONDE,115.004.80

<Q_EDM_C_1593_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_005> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_119>

{ED:LIV._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_WILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor L. My last was of the 13th hereof sent wth Lavarenne
, since the wch tyme , Monsr Bellieure is here retourned from the
conference , who hath made declaration to the Kinge , of the great
instance wch Monsr de Mayne maketh for the p~longation of the Truce ,
as the onlie meanes wch he p~poseth for the accomodating of the Common
affaires EDMONDE,119.005.81

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
but the King findeth he meaneth no manner of faithe towardes him ,
EDMONDE,119.005.82

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
and therefore as desirous to runne a contrarie course wth him , hath
sought to dispose himself the Truce ended , to renter into warre ,
EDMONDE,119.005.83

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
but falling into the reckoning howe , as first that for lacke of paie ,
the Swisse come not awaie : That he doth not yett knowe whatt it will
please her ma=tie= to doe for him , as also in the like expectacion ,
the States of the lowe Countries , EDMONDE,119.005.84

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And the nombrs wch beare the name of armye , not strong , he feareth in
case so unp~pared , he should p~ceade to that resolution , that the
enemie on the other side , readie <P_120> on the frontiers wth a
puissant armye , entring suddenlie thereuppon , would carrie manie of
his best places before he Could p~vide to help them .
EDMONDE,120.005.85

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
This I heard debated by the greatest here , and by consequence an
apparance of likelyhoode , for soe great necessities to yeald to the
p~longation of the Truce , yett to gayne tyme to aduise further thereof
according to occasion . EDMONDE,120.005.86

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
I learne answeare is made to Monsr de Mayne that the King attending
daylie newes from Rome from Monsr de Neuers to thende the better to
resolue therein , doth forbeare as yett to make declaration of his
pleasure in that behalfe . EDMONDE,120.005.87

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
A second thing Monsr Bellieure enfourmeth , that Monsr de la Chastre
Rhosne , and others make offer to treate p~ticulerlie wth the Kinge ,
to the wch I find it is meante to understand . EDMONDE,120.005.88

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
I praie God there grow better fruite thereof then of manie other the
like former . EDMONDE,120.005.89

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
The weakenes wch those of that side doe obserue of the Kinges meanes ,
doth out of feare retayne that disposition in manie of them :
EDMONDE,120.005.90

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And as therefore nothing can be of so p~sente greate importance to his
fortune as to shewe to be nowe well fortified , so in case of that want
of relief and countenance , the generall lamentation of the best here ,
is , that they renter into an endlesse miserie . EDMONDE,120.005.91

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Villars maketh the dellicate to byte att the offers made him ,
demanding to be absolutt Admyrall . EDMONDE,120.005.92

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
He is more behoulding to the faithe of the Gouuernor here , his cosen ,
then he is to his honestie . EDMONDE,120.005.93

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Manie of the Provinces having tasted of the sweetnes of the Truce , are
resolued , as Guyenne , languedoc and Dauphine , to take their own
leaue to p~long the same p~ticulerlie for a long tearme
EDMONDE,120.005.94

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
and doubted that others will followe their example . EDMONDE,120.005.95

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
The King is p~resentlie aduertised , but not well assured that the Duke
of Guise hath practised the entrie of troupes into Meaux ,
EDMONDE,120.005.96

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
and thereby assured the place at his deuotion in the mean tyme that
Vitry being abroade a hunting , enterteineth the King wth the belief to
be his servante . EDMONDE,120.005.97

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
That also there is a like practise intended by the said Duke to
dispossess Monsr de Belyn of the Gouuerment of Paris , and to establish
an instrument there at his deuotion . EDMONDE,120.005.98

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
Neuer was the Kinges desperation so great , and generally of all men ,
as nowe , in the p~sent contemplation of the distresse whereunto they
are reduced , the wch , I feare yor L. will heare , will force the
Kinge to runne shortlie an extraordinarie violent course if he doe not
spedelie receiue other comforte , EDMONDE,120.005.99

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
for I p~test I neuer sawe men possessed <P_121> wth a greater
astonishment . EDMONDE,121.005.100

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Deepe the sixtenth of Novembr
1593 . EDMONDE,121.005.101

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
yor L. most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,121.005.102

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
On Mondaie we doe wthout faile dep~te hence . EDMONDE,121.005.103

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:29?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:73
LETTER:EDMONDE_005:E2:1593:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable my singuler good lord the lord Burghley lord
high Thr~er of England . EDMONDE,121.005.104

<Q_EDM_C_1594_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_006> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_131>

{ED:LIX._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_WILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor L. Since my last it hath ben here resolued to
p~ceade to the Kinges Sacringe for the wch pourpose he doth dep~te
thence on Thursdaie next , and first goeth to visitt his army at la
fferte Myllon and from thence to Chartres . EDMONDE,131.006.105

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de Mayne hath sent hither Monsr Zamett to presse a newe a
cessation of armes for a moneth during the wch he doth under his hand
promise to treate , and conclude a peace , wthout reference to the
likinge and approbation of the Pope . EDMONDE,131.006.106

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
That duringe the same it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} lawful for the King
to enter what forces he shall thincke good , and where the King
doubteth that the same tendeth to gayne tyme uppon him , and
espetiallie to assure Lyon , by hauinge the comoditie to make a journey
thither , he p~miseth not to approche lyon during the said terme by
thirtie leagues And that anie Townes that $will $be {TEXT:wilbe}
content to geiue themselfes to the Kinge it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
lawefull for him to receiue them , so as he doe not use therein act of
hostilitie . EDMONDE,131.006.107

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And for p~tence of his desier of the same , alleaging to be onlie , to
haue the comoditie to come to an interviewe wth the Duke of lorrayne ,
whom for that pourpose he hath desired to approche to thende to cleare
thinges <P_132> betweene them , to understand by com~on consent to a
peace . EDMONDE,132.006.108

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
This offer so plausible , the K: hath ben much urged to accept as
tending otherwise to Monsr de Maines Justification , and the accusation
of the Kinge for refusing him that reason : uppon the wch therefore
Monsr Villeroy hath ben instanted by Monsr de Mayne to come to treate
wth the King who is expected to arryue this daie : EDMONDE,132.006.109

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but the Kinge wanteth not sufficient warning , and instruction of the
practise thereof , for both by a letter intercepted of the Spa: Ambr at
Rome , written to the Duke of fferia , reporting the treatie there held
wth the Duke of Neuers , and likewise by an other letter since also
intercepted of the Duke of Mayne written to his agent at Rome wherein
he requyreth him to p~cure of the Pope to drawe Monsr de Neuers
negotiation to lengthe and under the color of a fauorable inclynation
towardes the Kinge to demande the p~longation of the Truce for three or
foure monethes more to thende to geiue him tyme to dispose his
complottes to a readiness . EDMONDE,132.006.110

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
It appeareth that he maketh these faire p~mises to serue onlie to gayne
tyme in respect of the wauering of the Townes , having also in the like
contradiction sent latelie the Marquis of Villars his sonne in lawe
into Spayne , to negociatt as is said the marriage of the Infante wth
his eldest sonne called Henry Monsr : EDMONDE,132.006.111

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And therefore the answeare easelie made thereunto . EDMONDE,132.006.112

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The Duke of Guise is dep~ted from Paris EDMONDE,132.006.113

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
some signifie to goe to seeke monie , not hauing a pennie in his purse
EDMONDE,132.006.114

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
others saie to goe to meete the men wch are entred the frontiers , sent
before to make hedd to the Kinges enterprises in attending the great
wch followeth after wth all dilligence . EDMONDE,132.006.115

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de Belyns dep~ture out of Paris moued so greate a sedition amonge
the Inhabitantes , as Monsr de Mayne was forced to deale wth him to goe
fourth seacretlie and by stealthe and making p~clamation for certeine
daies that uppon payne of death the people should make noe assemblies
or frequentation for anie cause aboue the nombr of six together .
EDMONDE,132.006.116

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
If Monsr de Belyn had had in him the least resolution to haue joyned
wth the Cort of Parlement and the people , he had wth great facilitie
chased Monsr de Mayne and the Spanyardes out of the Town .
EDMONDE,132.006.117

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Since Monsr de Mayne hath placed a garrison in the Chastelett
EDMONDE,132.006.118

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and meaneth to put manie of the Cort of Parlement and Burgesses out of
the Towne . EDMONDE,132.006.119

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
It is also aduertised that Monsr de Mayne hath imp~=i=soned the deputie
of Orleans that went thither to p~test against him .
EDMONDE,132.006.120

<P_133>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yesterday the deputies of the relligion receiued their answeare of the
King , that they must content themselfes wth the edict of the year 77
in attending that the tyme will geiue him leaue to enlarge himself
further towardes them , wth the wch they are to be dismissed .
EDMONDE,133.006.121

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The King receiued this daie a letter from a gent called Monsr de
Piepape of Bourgoundie , that was lieutenant to the Duke of Guise of
his troupe of horse , by the wch he desireth him to receiue him into
his obedience and to enterteine him in paie a Companie of horse wch he
will bring to serue him of his frendes . EDMONDE,133.006.122

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Mantes the 12th of January
1593 . EDMONDE,133.006.123

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
yor L. most humble Tho: Edmondes EDMONDE,133.006.124

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_006:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable my singuler good lord the lord Burghley lord
high Thr~er of England . EDMONDE,133.006.125

<Q_EDM_C_1594_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_007> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_133>

{ED:LX._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_WILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor L. Sending to my lord Ambr wth order from the King
for his convoye I thought it my duetie therewth to lett runne these few
lynes , to geiue yor L to understand howe since my last thinges haue
here passed . EDMONDE,133.007.126

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The seege of la fferte Myllon hath geiuen more payne , and difficultie
than was expected , by reason that twoe mynes havinge played made noe
effect , whereby they haue ben forced to great loss of tyme , to
beginne other newe , in the p~fourmance whereof the enemye hath much
anoyed ours , wth their fyerwourkes and the Admyrall himself a litle
burnte , EDMONDE,133.007.127

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but he hath aduertised the King both that it is of noe danger , and
that he hoapeth wthin fewe daies to haue other fyne mynes readie to
playe . EDMONDE,133.007.128

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The King having deferred his dep~ture thither untill tomorrow for my
lord Ambrs <P_134> cominge , and sent Monsr de Rhosny , of his counsell
, in my companie , to have receiued him at Gisors doth nowe p~ceade in
his Journey , for that my lord Ambr doth not so soon arryue and
appoynteth to meete him at Chartres whether the counsell doe wthin 3 or
4 daies advance , before . EDMONDE,134.007.129

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The King hath made answeare by Zamett , to Monsr de Mayne that for the
reasons exp~ssed in my last letter he $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
understand to his demand of a truce , unless he make p~fe of a better
faithe . EDMONDE,134.007.130

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr Villeroy hath ben here , and made p~mise of fidellitee to the
Kinge . EDMONDE,134.007.131

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
There is the like assurance of his sonne the Gouuernor of Pontoise to
p~fourme as much after the expiration of the newtrallitie wch is
accorded w=th= him for three monethes . EDMONDE,134.007.132

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Here and p~sentlie both Madame de Symieres and the Abbe of Tyrone , the
confidentes of Monsr Villars , to treate his composition
EDMONDE,134.007.133

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and also Deputies of Orleans to conclude that matche .
EDMONDE,134.007.134

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
St Pol hath also sent to treate his capitulation , EDMONDE,134.007.135

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and there is hoape to gayne the Duke of Elbeuff so as the K. will geiue
him the gouuerment of Poictou , for the wch pourpose a gent is
dispatched unto him to make him offer thereof . EDMONDE,134.007.136

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr Ballagny doth p~cure that Monstreull and Dourleens in Pycardie ,
doe also understand to composition . EDMONDE,134.007.137

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
It is not yett concluded wth Ballagny himself because of the
difficultie to find som~e of threescore and tenne thousand Crownes ,
for a yeares paiement of his garrison whereof he desireth first to be
cleared . EDMONDE,134.007.138

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr St. Luc retourned yesterdaie into Pycardie , about the
composition of Peronne . EDMONDE,134.007.139

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Monsr vignols the gouuernor of Esp~nay hath latelie surprised a fort of
verie good importance wch the Duke of Guise buylt long since at
Marreull uppon the ryuer of Marne . EDMONDE,134.007.140

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Hereinclosed yor l. shall receiue the Kinges newe published declaration
. EDMONDE,134.007.141

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Mantes the of Januarie <font>
1523 </font> {ED:SIC} EDMONDE,134.007.142

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
yor l. most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,134.007.143

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
LETTER:EDMONDE_007:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable my singuler good lord the lord Burghley lord
high Thr~er of England . EDMONDE,134.007.144

<Q_EDM_CA_1594_T_WCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_008> <A_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1520> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_153>

{ED:LXVIII._WILLIAM_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
By yo=r= last lettere , yowe did aduertise in the beginninge thereof in
plaine wordds , that nowe the kinge was entred into Laon , whereof I
was varrie glad : EDMONDE,153.008.145

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
but in sum other part of yo=r= letter followinge yowe make mention of
an agrement of the k. to the Duke de Mayne of certaine daies given him
to succour the said towne of Laon by entrye of a nomber of men , or
else to haue the seige levied by force , w=ch= doth argue noe full
possession of the towne of Laon , and thearefore maketh vs heare
dowbtfull whither the kinge be thereof fullie possessed or not :
EDMONDE,153.008.146

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Althowgh by the waie of Callis wee haue hed yt certainelie reported
that yt hath ben fullie rendred to the k: and that the kinge should be
gon to La fere , the trewthe hereof will be vearye shortlie vnderstood
. EDMONDE,153.008.147

<P_154>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Nowe yowe shall vnderstand that the Quenes ma=tie= hath ben heare
solicited by the ffrenche Ambassado=r= , and by Mons=r= Sourdeac
Gouernor of Brest to increase hir forces in Britaigne , for the
expellinge of the Spaniardes from the fort w=ch= theie haue begonne to
builde theare , whearevnto hir ma=tie= hath been vearie vnwilling to be
at anie further charge , or to continue hir forces theare anie longer
considering she hath seen by experience that the Marshall D Aumont the
kinges lieutenant theare hath noe forces nor of longe time hath had ,
whearew=th= her ma=ties= forces might joine to doe any service theare .
EDMONDE,154.008.148

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Yet neuertheles partlie vppon yo=r= aduertisement that the k. would
send forces thither , and vppon the ernest solicitation of his
Ambassado=r= and promise that the k. would send footemen and horsemen
presentlye , and thos to be mainteined , besides the ordinarye forces
of the Countrye w=ch= theie doe accompt to be neare hand , for
performance of w=ch= offers the Ambassado=r= hath presentlye assured
hir ma=tie= that he will aduertise the k: thereof , and lett him knowe
the trewthe of the Q. intencion , w=ch= is , that if the ffrenche k.
will not speedelie send forces thither sufficient for o=rs= to ioine
w=th= all for the recouerye of the fort and expellinge of the Spaniards
she will revoke thos forces that alreadie are theare , and thos that
are nowe sent , back from thence , as invtile and vnhable to doe anie
service theare , w=th=out the forces of the ffrenche to ioine them .
EDMONDE,154.008.149

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
ffurthermore hir ma=tie= hath vearie ernestly pressed the Ambassado=r=
to procure from the k. satisfacco~n of sum portions of the monies w=ch=
he doth owe hir , and to defraie presentlye the charges of the forces
w=ch= nowe she shall haue theare both by sea and by land , w=th=out
w=ch= satisfaccon , to be made to hir ma=ty= hir meaninge is to
w=th=drawe hir forces from thence , EDMONDE,154.008.150

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and soe hath she protested to the Ambassado=r= absolutelye ,
wheareuppon he hath deluiered a bond heare to hir ma=tie= , whereof I
doe send yowe a Copie , EDMONDE,154.008.151

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and therew=th=all is annexed a Scedule conteininge the monethlie
charges of the forces by land that shall be theare and the charges by
sea for 3 monethes : EDMONDE,154.008.152

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and hereof hir ma=ties= pleisure is yowe shall take knowledge , and
impart this hir ma=ties= intencion and desire to the ffrenche king
requiring him , that yowe maie haue sum awnsweare from him to be
deliuered to hir ma=tie= for hir satisfaccon . And if the forces
intended by y=e= k: be not gon to hasten them by all meanes possible ,
EDMONDE,154.008.153

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
for otherwise w=th=owt theire accesse thither , yowe maie declare vnto
the k: that hir ma=tie= hath charged hir generall not to employe hir
forces in anie service theare , but that he <P_155> showlde rather
retorne back againe then to continue theare w=th= hir forces as he hath
done nowe thes late yeares to the wastinge of hir people and expence of
hir treasurer , w=th=out anie profitt to the king theare , by reason
that the k. hath had noe forces theare of any vallue , neither hath the
Marshall sowght to attempt anie service against the Ennemie , but
suffred the whole burden to rest vppon the Englishe .
EDMONDE,155.008.154

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Thes remonstrances yowe must make vnto the k. seriouslie , and desire
to knowe of him whither the D. Mompensier shall goe thither and w=th=
what forces , and whither the Marshall D Aumont shall continue , and if
he doe what his authoritye shall be whilest the D. Mompensier shall be
theare . EDMONDE,155.008.155

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Yowe shall also lett the k. vnderstand that the Marshall hath sent one
Mons=r= de Forges the k. servant hither w=th= letters to hir ma=tie=
complaininge first that he vnderstandeth that hir ma=ty= hath ernestlye
solicited the k. to reuoke the Marshall addinge a worde thearevnto
greatly mislikinge hir Ma=ty= in thes wordes hereafter followinge .
EDMONDE,155.008.156

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Et qui pis est qu'on s'ayde du nom de Vostre Ma=tie= pour y paruenir ,
Luy faisant faire instanse enuers le Roy comme i'ay appris de me faire
reuocquer <font> honteusement d'icy </font> . EDMONDE,155.008.157

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
<paren> hir Ma=ty= mislyketh this word . </paren> EDMONDE,155.008.158

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
He hath likewise in his letter charged S=r= Jo: Norris w=th= diuers
faultes theare committed to the offence of the Cuntrye And besides that
the ffrenche Ambassado=r= hath declared to hir ma=tie= that hearetofore
he receiued letters from the k. w=th= a Copie of a letter written to
S=r= John Norris more than a yeare and a quarter past when the k. was
at Dreux , whereof the Ambassador neuer made mention vntill nowe vppon
the comminge of Monsr. de Forges : w=ch= thinges appeared vearie
strange vnto hir ma=ty= . EDMONDE,155.008.159

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
And for that S=r= John Norris was heare present newelye come ouer he
hath been charged hearew=th= , before the Ambassado=r= and Mons=r= de
Forges , EDMONDE,155.008.160

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and hath soe awnswered to all partes whearew=th= he hath been charged ,
and made good proof of his allegawns for his answeare , as both the
Ambassado=r= and De Forges seeme to be satisfied , and doe thinke that
the Marishall hath been misinformed , and that theare hath been sum
practize by sum not frendes to the Marshall , nor well willinge to the
aduancement of the service theare , to sende S=r= John Norris from the
Marshall EDMONDE,155.008.161

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
for emongest other thinges , S=r= John Norris sheweth letters of the
Marshal to himselfe allowinge of sondrie thinges whereof nowe theie
seeke to charge him : EDMONDE,155.008.162

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and as yt semeth the Marshalls humour against S=r= John Norris
proceadeth of a Conceipt that <P_156> he hath been the meanes to haue
the Marshall revoked from thence , w=ch= he vtterlie denieth to haue
donne otherwise then that he hath at sum times aduertised hir ma=tie=
howe well willinge he findeth a great nomber in Bretaigne disposed to
haue the D. Mompensier to retorne thither againe : Because as they saie
he showld be hable beinge nowe Gouerno=r= of Normandye to increase the
k. forces vearie much by bringinge of good nombers owt of Normandy ,
and vppon that Consideraccon onely w=th=owt anie evill meaninge
towardes the Marshall hir Ma=ty= hath been moued to recommend the
sendinge thither of the D. Mompensier not meaninge anie disgrace to the
Marshal or deminuc~on of the k. good opinion of him .
EDMONDE,156.008.163

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Vppon the full hearinge of S=r= John Norris and his awnsweares
consideringe the Accusacons haue been but generall he hath required to
haue the said generall accusacons to be reduced to sum perticuler
pointes , w=ch= he offrethe to awnsweare , vppon the losse of his head
and honnour that theare shall be nothinge proued against him worthy of
Reprehens~on : EDMONDE,156.008.164

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
And to this ende I thinke hir ma=tie= will send sum Gentilman thither
for satisfacco~n of the marshall to require that S=r= John Norris maie
be perticulerlye charged , and so to awnsweare the same in the hearing
of the Marshall or anie other men of Reputacon and Creditt theare .
EDMONDE,156.008.165

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Nowe whither the Ambassado=r= heare doth make anie report to the k. of
this matter or not I doe not knowe , EDMONDE,156.008.166

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
but yet yowe shall doe well to take sum good oportunity to impart thus
much to the k. and also to add this , That wheare the Ambassado=r= hath
showed a letter signed by the k. when he was at Dreux , to S=r= John
Norris wherein the k. doth seme to haue been informed of great
disorders to haue been committed by the Englishe , S=r= John Norris
doth vtterlie denie to haue euer hard of anie such letter , or anie
browght vnto him , alledging that if he had he would accordinge to his
duetie haue awnsweared and satisfied the k. thearein :
EDMONDE,156.008.167

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and hearein yowe maye declare vnto the k. that w=ch= semed strange vnto
hir ma=tie= to behold the letter to be signed w=th= the k. verrie hand
{ED:Henry} and yet his name crossed out w=th= a line , wherw=th= the
Ambassado=r= beinge charged to knowe the cawse of the crossinge he
cowld make noe other awnsweare but that it came soe to him whearevppon
hir ma=tie= presumed consideringe it was neuer browght to S=r= John
Norris , that the k himself after the same had been written and signed
by him , had giuen sum Commaundment to Crosse yt , as being better
informed after the signinge then before , EDMONDE,156.008.168

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
but what hath been the trewthe thereof hir ma=tie= <P_157> leaueth to
the k. Consideracon , assuringe him that S=r= John Norris will be
readie at anie time to satisfie his ma=ty= vppon anie further
informacon he shall receiue by waie of anie perticularitie to charge
him w=th=all . EDMONDE,157.008.169

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
By yo=r= later letters browght hither yesterdaie , It semeth that the
k. beinge moued by yowe for the sendinge of the D. Mompensier into
Britaigne , made awnsweare that he had expected sum awnsweare from hir
ma=tie= , vppon the messuage sent from him by S=r= Roger Williams :
EDMONDE,157.008.170

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
And on the other side , S=r= Roger Williams report was such vnto hir
ma=tie= , as she looked rather to haue herd from the k. of the sending
of Mompensier , before anie further aide weare geven by hir into
Britaigne , EDMONDE,157.008.171

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
for S=r= Roger Williams informed hir ma=tie= that he tolde the ffrenche
k. directlie that vntill she might vnderstand that the k. had sent
greate forces into Britaigne , she would send noe more thither , but
rather would revoke such as weare theare , so as hir ma=tie= expected
dailie to heare of the accesse of the kinges forces into Britaigne ,
for defawte whereof hir ma=tie= of late was disposed to haue revoked
hir forces theare , EDMONDE,157.008.172

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
but nowe beinge perswaded by his Ambassado=r= that the k. would not
faile after the recouering to send the forces that he had promised
both-5 of horse and foote , whearevppon hir ma=tie= hath presentlie
ordered hir forces of foote to be aboue And one hundred horsemen : And
by sea w=th= hir owne shippes besides almost as manie w=th= the shippes
of warre of hir marchantes , and hath obtained by hir solicitacons the
aide of tenne or twelue shippes of warre from the States of the lowe
Cuntries : All w=ch= beinge well laide together she praieth the k. to
Consider , Consideringe the Cuntrye is not hirs but his howe he ought
in honnour to enlarge his forces for that province , beinge the Cuntrye
at this time , onelie invested by the Spanishe forces : and most
dangerous for the Ennemie to recouer because thearebie he shall make
himself potent by sea , w=ch= by noe other meanes he can doe .
EDMONDE,157.008.173

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
All thes thinges yowe shall well consider , and require the k. to geue
yowe obedience at large to enforme him hereof , and to desire awnsweare
thearevnto for hir ma=ties= satisfaccon . EDMONDE,157.008.174

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
By yo=r= letters yesterdaye receiued it semeth vearie strange to hir
ma=tie= that the k. will aduenture the losse of the service of the
Mareshall Biron , for one named by yowe to haue the Gouerment grawnted
vnto him of Laon , that is by all kinde of report vnknowen to hir
ma=tie= , or vs heare , whearein yowe might haue done well to haue
described the partie , and of what qualletie he was , and what moued
the <P_158> k. to bestowe such an office vppon him .
EDMONDE,158.008.175

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
It is aiso thought very strange that the D. of Guise , whoe was in
predicament to haue been sett vpp to be kinge theare by his Rebells ,
should nowe haue so great reward and such further enterteinment , as we
heare not that the k. hath geuen the like to anie that hath best served
him , EDMONDE,158.008.176

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
and therefore it is sumwhat dowbted least yowe haue in yo=r= writinge
mistaken the report , both-1 for him , and the offer made to his vncle
the D. de Mayne . EDMONDE,158.008.177

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
It is desired that yowe would learne the trewthe of the Cawse that the
Marishall Montmorency doth not cum to the Co=rt= after so many promises
. EDMONDE,158.008.178

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
I doubt not but yowe heare of the muteny of them of Dunkirke , the
recouerie of w=ch= towne , if the yeare weare not so far spent , I
thinke the States would attempt . EDMONDE,158.008.179

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
It is vearie strange to vs that wee $can $not {TEXT:cannot} heare whome
the k. meaneth to send into Scotland to the Baptisme , w=ch= I thinke
yowe should best vnderstand or the Lard of Wemmes , EDMONDE,158.008.180

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
for so the ffrenche k. wrote to the k. of Scottes , that he would send
such a man w=th= the Lard of Wemmes , the baptisme having been differed
diuers daies from the daie first appointed , and nowe putt ouer to the
xviij=th= daie of this monethe accordinge to o=r= Accompt : the delaye
wheareof hath been chargeable to the Ambassadors of Denmarke , and
others also sent owt of the lowe Cuntries : and soe shall be to o=r=
Ambassador the Erle of Sussex , whoe is readie to departe thither
EDMONDE,158.008.181

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
but I hope before this letter shall cum to yowe , wee shall here of the
k. deputie to be sent , whoe is likelie to take shipping at Callis
beinge his next waie to goe by sea this sommer time .
EDMONDE,158.008.182

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
I would be glad to haue a Catalogue of such as the k. doth nowe vse
abowt him for his Counsello=rs= , and what is like to cum vppon the
Cardinall Gondis informacon browght from the Pope . EDMONDE,158.008.183

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Thus because I wryt seldom to yow , I have made y=r= letter y=e= longer
. EDMONDE,158.008.184

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
fro~ y=e= Coart at Grenwych the x of Avgust 1594 . EDMONDE,158.008.185

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
Your assured loving frend W. Burghley . EDMONDE,158.008.186

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
I wold gladly haue receaved a Copy of y=e= Capitulation for y=e= rendry
of Laon . EDMONDE,158.008.187

<P_159>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
I pray you lern what towns y=e= leagers and ye spanyardes hold from
y=e= kyng specially in Pycardy and the partyes towardes Arthois and
Hennault . EDMONDE,159.008.188

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_008:E2:1594:CA:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my vearie lovinge frende M=r= Thomas Edmondes ,
remaininge in ffrance for hir Ma=ties= service . EDMONDE,159.008.189

<Q_EDM_C_1594_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_009> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_176>

{ED:LXXV._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes : EDMONDE,176.009.190

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
my L : being sicke , I haue imparted yo=r= letter of the xiiij=th= of
this moneth to her ma=tie= who well alloweth of yo=r= last manner of
dealing w=th= the king , both concerning the deliuerie of Morlaix into
her ma=tes= handes for a Retraict , according to y=e= Contracte , as
also the expostulating the kinges slownesse in all his promisses to be
performed to vs ; wherin yo=w= may perceave her ma=tes= scope , by the
Copie of this her letter , in w=ch= Course , the Quene still would haue
yo=w= runne . EDMONDE,176.009.191

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Her may=tie= hathe also written vnto the king , a very ernest letter
concerning Maritime spoiles daylie Commytted , one vppon y=e= necke of
an other w=th=out ever the restitucion of any thing w=ch= is demaunded
; EDMONDE,176.009.192

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and therfore her may=tie= Commaundes yo=w= in any wise , <paren>
according to perticulers nowe sent yo=w= </paren> to deale w=th= the
king , and especiallie for y=e= greate Iniuries done to a good merchans
of great credytt , and a good mayntainer of Sea services , named M=r=
Wattes . EDMONDE,176.009.193

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The rest of other profes <paren> if nowe yow receaue them not </paren>
shall not <P_177> be Longe from yo=w= , wherby yo=w= being well
instructed , may y=e= better drawe some perfecte Resolucon from him for
satisfaccon both-3 of her may=tie= and her Subiectes .
EDMONDE,177.009.194

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
More I haue not at this tyme to write vnto yo=w= EDMONDE,177.009.195

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but do wish yo=w= well , EDMONDE,177.009.196

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and to my power will ever be ready to doe yo=w= any pleasure I can .
EDMONDE,177.009.197

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
ffrom the Court this xxvj=th= of September 1594 EDMONDE,177.009.198

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= very loving friende Ro: Cecyll . EDMONDE,177.009.199

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= maie perceaue somewhat by the letter of her ma=tes= purpose ;
EDMONDE,177.009.200

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Surely if the kinges fforces for Breste come not , her may=tie= will
not leaue a man behind in the Contrie . EDMONDE,177.009.201

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes EDMONDE,177.009.202

{ED:ADDRESSED}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:31?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_009:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
To my very loving freind M=r= Thomas Edmondes her Ma=tes= Agent w=th=
the ffrenche kinge . EDMONDE,177.009.203

<Q_EDM_C_1594_T_WCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_010> <A_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1520> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_190>

{ED:LXXXII._WILLIAM_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Sr. Yo=r= last letters are of the xiij=th= of this monethe from S=t=
Germain , by w=ch= yowe haue vearie diligentlye aduertised such matters
of moment as haue occurred theare , whearew=th= hir ma=tie= hath been
acquainted : Emongest all w=ch= matters hir ma=tie= liketh best to
vnderstand of the k. fauor w=ch= he beareth to them of the Religion ,
havinge procured the assent of all the Princes and others of his
Counsell for the maintenaunce of the Edict , whearein if yowe chance to
haue anie secrett speeche w=th= the k. yowe maie doe well to let him
vnderstand , howe much hir ma=tie= is contented w=th= his honorable
dealinge thearein , towardes them of the Religion , whoe haue preserved
him in his former times of Extremities w=th= the losse of the lives of
manie of them . EDMONDE,190.010.204

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Howe the D. of Bullion hath aduertised his ioininge w=th= the forces of
the Lowe Cuntries I knowe not , EDMONDE,190.010.205

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but wee are certefied from Sir Francis Veere , whoe was vesd w=th=
horse to accompanie the lowe Cuntries forces , that the D. of Bullion
did not meate them as theie did expect on the waie ,
EDMONDE,190.010.206

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but he and the rest of the fforces w=th= him marched thorowgh the
Busshoprick of Trier , EDMONDE,190.010.207

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and w=th= great hazard recouered Metz before he could heare of the D.
of Bullion , whoe came not to them vntill theie had been two daies
theare before him : EDMONDE,190.010.208

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And Sir Francis Veere came from thence having done that he went for ,
that was to see the ioninge of the States forces and the duke together
EDMONDE,190.010.209

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and was forced for his suretie to retorne ouer the Rhin , at the Citie
of <P_191> Maynnce w=th= a minde to passe thorowgh Westphalia , and so
to retorne to the lowe Cuntries , wheare , I trust wee shall shortlie
heare of his safe arrivall . EDMONDE,191.010.210

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yowe haue done well to procure the k. to write to the Marshall Daumont
, for the deliuerye of the 2 pieces of Ordonance at Guigan and in like
sort to discharge o=r= merchantes of the newe Tributes at Morlais .
EDMONDE,191.010.211

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
In like sort hir ma=tie= liketh of yo=r= procuringe of the letter to
Mons=r= de Lucon , for o=r= merchantes that trade to Bourdeaux , before
w=ch= letter seen , It was not assured that Monsr. de Lucon was
retorned to the kinges obedience . EDMONDE,191.010.212

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
ffor yo=r= dealinge towchinge Morlais , although I thinke the Marshall
will indirectlie impeache the deliuerie of it vnto vs , yet the matter
is not to be regarded nowe , for that hir ma=tie= meaneth to revoke hir
whole forces from thence w=th= a minde to emploie a great part theareof
as necessary for hir , as hath been the service of Bretaigne , and the
rest to be discharged and to be retorned into England , from whence
theie went this last Sommer . EDMONDE,191.010.213

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Hir ma=tie= mindeth to send one thether to serve as hir Ambassado=r=
w=ch= I thinke shall be S=r= Thomas Parry , who is heare attending for
the same : EDMONDE,191.010.214

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and thowgh she intended to haue licensed yowe to haue retorned ,
consideringe the chargeable Journeie to haue ben made by yowe w=th= the
kinge to Lyons , hir Ma=tie= is pleased that yowe maie remaine at Paris
, vntill yowe shall heare further of S=r= Th: Parris readines to cum
thither : EDMONDE,191.010.215

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and so for yo=r= excuse in not goinge w=th= the ffrenche k: yowe maie
impart the same vnto the kinge : EDMONDE,191.010.216

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and yet neuertheles hir ma=tie= doth expect that yo=w= will vse all the
good meanes yowe can to vnderstand the ffrenche kinges proceadinges and
his affayres , and theareof to give due Aduertisement vnto hir ma=tie=
. EDMONDE,191.010.217

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The ffrenche Ambassado=r= heare hath been arrested w=th= the gowte 4 or
5 daies past , EDMONDE,191.010.218

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
or else he had been readie to haue departed hence , whearew=th= hir
ma=tie= was scantelie contented , bicause she hath not yet receiued the
Ratificacon of the Accord w=ch= was made this last yeare w=th= the
Ambassado=r= for the aide to Britaigne , w=ch= if it be not alreadie
sent from thence , yowe maie doe well to solicite it w=th= some
ernestnes to the k . EDMONDE,191.010.219

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The Newes that yowe had of the winninge of the ffort of Brest ,
comminge to yowe abowt the 13 , was reasonablye freshe , consideringe
the ffort was taken the 7=th= wheareof wee weare not aduertised before
<P_192> the xvij=th= . EDMONDE,192.010.220

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
The manner of the winninge thereof , and puttinge all the Spaniardes to
the sword I knowe not howe it is theare reported , EDMONDE,192.010.221

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but in vearie trewthe it was both valiantlie assailed by the Englishe
and ffrenche , And thorowghlie defended by the Spaniardes ,
EDMONDE,192.010.222

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and S=r= John Norris doth report that the Gentlemen of ffrance did
theire partes thearein , w=th= the losse of diuers of their liues as
honorably as euer he sawe an assawlt attempted , the ffrenche having
giuen the assawlt to a Bulwarke that was sawltable by reason of a mine
, and o=rs= giuinge the assawlte to an other Bulwarke , not so easie ,
EDMONDE,192.010.223

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but that w=th= great hazard o=r= men entred : The Ennemies havinge
vearie prowdelye stood to their defence , vntill theie weare all
vanquished and putt to the sword : none escapinge but 2 or 3 that weare
fownd hidden in sum Cave : EDMONDE,192.010.224

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and sum of them sowght to escape by swimminge in the Sea ,
EDMONDE,192.010.225

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but o=r= mariners , made them sinke . EDMONDE,192.010.226

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Emongest other the losses of o=r= part S=r= Martin Frobissher , whoe
was Admirall of o=r= ffleete was theare hurt at the assawlt ,
EDMONDE,192.010.227

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and so retorning hence to Plimmowth , hath since his retorne died of
the wound ; EDMONDE,192.010.228

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
the losse was great of the man , EDMONDE,192.010.229

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
for he was valiant both by water and by land . EDMONDE,192.010.230

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yowe shall doe well to moue the k: to giue Commaundment to the
Gouuerno=r= of deepe , to permitt Otwell Smithe to send heare the Q.
ordonance that is theare , and lieth at sum charge :
EDMONDE,192.010.231

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and yowe maie saie that hir ma=tie= taketh it sumwhat vnkindlie that
monie is demaunded of Otwell Smith for the Conduct of that Ordonance in
the k. service , to S=t= Valleries and Honfleu , and for the retorne ,
w=ch= there is noe reason to demaund of him consideringe the same was
vsed for the k. service . EDMONDE,192.010.232

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And so yowe maie moue the k: both-2 to direct the Gouuerno=r= of deepe
to cawse the said Ordonance to be sent awaie , and all such charges as
Otwell Smith shall alledge to be demaunded of him for yt , to be
defraied . EDMONDE,192.010.233

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
I doe most hartelie thanke yowe for the multitude of Bookes yowe sent
mee , emongest the w=ch= , I haue spetiallie obserued the awnsweare of
the Jesuistes to the pleadinge of the Aduocat Arnold , w=ch= pleadinge
<P_193> I had 2 or 3 monethes past , and did like yt vearye well :
EDMONDE,193.010.234

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
but nowe by the awnsweare of the Jesuistes , I thinke him towched so
neare , for his alleadging of sondry thinges vntrewlie as the Jesuistes
saie , as it shall behoue him to make sum good replie theareto , w=ch=
when it shall cum forthe I praie yowe lett mee haue yt , and any other
pamphelettes of such like nature , bicause I take them for my
recreac~on to see the diuersitie of the humo=rs= of men .
EDMONDE,193.010.235

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And so havinge noe other thinge to write at this time , I commend mee
hartelie to yowe . EDMONDE,193.010.236

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
ffrom my howse in the Strand this xxvij=th= of November . 1594 .
EDMONDE,193.010.237

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_010:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= verie Lovinge frend W. Burghley EDMONDE,193.010.238

<Q_EDM_C_1594_T_WCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_011> <A_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1520> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_193>

{ED:LXXXIII._WILLIAM_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_011:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Since the writinge of my other letter w=ch= was readie yesterdaie to
haue been sent vnto yowe , the Booke inclosed of the horrible Treasons
lately practized against hir ma=ties= person by Lopez and others came
newlie from the presse , translated owt of Englishe into ffrenche
whereof I haue sent sum to yowe , in exchange of the Bookes yowe sent
mee and maie be theare published as yowe shall see cawse :
EDMONDE,193.011.239

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_011:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
and if the same shall be so well like as I thinke they will be to
manifest to the world the barbarous practises of the k. of Spaine , I
doe not thinke <P_194> but theie will be more common theare , by some
impression to be made theareof . EDMONDE,194.011.240

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_011:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
And so I bid yowe farewell . EDMONDE,194.011.241

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_011:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
ffrom my howse in the Strand this 28=th= of November 1594 .
EDMONDE,194.011.242

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:74
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:30?
LETTER:EDMONDE_011:E2:1594:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= verie Lovinge frend W. Burghley . EDMONDE,194.011.243

<Q_EDM_C_1595_T_WCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_012> <A_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1520> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_207>

{ED:LXXXIX._WILLIAM_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
S=r= I haue receiued of late diuers letters from yowe the last whereof
was the vj=th= of this moneth : EDMONDE,207.012.244

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And with this last I receiued two Bookes latelie published theare ,
whereof the one conteineth a discourse of the Gallicane Churche , the
other , a Refutation of the Jesuistes , in the name of an Aduocat for
the Cures in Paris . EDMONDE,207.012.245

<P_208>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Vppon this late aduertisement of yo=rs= of the k: meaninge to goe to
Lions , hir ma=tie= hath geven Commaundement to S=r= Thomas Parry to
cum thither as an ordinary Ambassado=r= . EDMONDE,208.012.246

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
But yet becawse hir ma=tie= perceiueth by letters written to the
ffrenche Ambassador heare , that the k: meaneth immedatlie after yo=r=
ffrenche Candelmas to take his Journeye w=ch= I take to be vearie neare
abowt this time , therefore hir ma=tie= would haue yowe to take the
paines either to goe w=th= the k: or to followe him to Lyons , and
there to continue wheare the k: shall be vntill M=r= Parry may cum and
arrive theare : EDMONDE,208.012.247

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but hearein I did presse hir ma=tie= to geve yowe larger allowance then
yowe haue , or to geve yowe sum portion in grosse as the Spaniard said
por aduido des costes , EDMONDE,208.012.248

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but I cowld not obtaine my request of hir ma=tie= , although I knowe
yo=r= necessitie by yo=r= expences shall also necessarelie require of
hir ma=tie= sum furtherance , for the helpe whereof I wishe yowe would
write sum letters to my L. of Essex and to me complaininge of yo=r=
dishabillities , EDMONDE,208.012.249

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And besides that , if yowe dare adventure , I wishe yowe woulde write
sum letter to hir ma=tie= , Consideringe w=th= what probabell raisons
yowe maie moue hir ma=tie= to satisfie yo=r= necessary expences onelie
, and noe otherwise to benefitt yo=r=self . EDMONDE,208.012.250

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
The ffrenche k. hath of late written letters to his Ambassado=rs=
declaringe his ernest determinaco~n nowe to make sharpe warre vppon the
k. of Spayne , EDMONDE,208.012.251

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And praieth the Quene to enter into Consideraco~ns thereof howe she may
concurre w=th= him : EDMONDE,208.012.252

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
hearevnto hir ma=tie= hath readilie awnswered that she is glad to see
the ffrenche k: soe ernestlye disposed , wishinge him a good succes
thearein , and allowinge of his intent : EDMONDE,208.012.253

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and for hir owne part , hir owne actions , haue been soe manifest in
offendinge the kinge of Spaine by open hostillitie , as she wisheth the
k. had done half the like : EDMONDE,208.012.254

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and thereof the worlde is an open witnes , first by maintenn~ce of
warre against the k: of Spaine in the Lowe Cuntries thes manie yeares .
Secondlye by Invadinge of his Cuntrie w=th= open Armie , both in Spaine
and in Portingall ; to noe small charge of hir self and hir people .
EDMONDE,208.012.255

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Besides this the k. of Spaine hath felt open hostillitie from hir
ma=tie= , in spoilinge of his Indias , and taking of his Riche Carickes
, and interupting of all his navigaco~n vppon the Coast of Spaine , so
as , besides the great charges she was at in mainteininge a great Armie
against his Navall Armie at the Seas , and the defeatinge theareof ,
hir ma=tie= $can $not {TEXT:cannott} imagine howe to haue made <P_209>
him a sharper warre : EDMONDE,209.012.256

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And if the ffrenche k: had in thes times , been hable to haue made anie
offensiue warre against the k: of Spaine , when as it seemeth he was
hable to doe nothinge but defend himself The k. of Spaine should haue
been little hable either to haue offended the k. or hir ma=tie= , as yt
seemeth he still intendeth to doe . EDMONDE,209.012.257

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yowe maie add hearevnto if yowe shall haue occasion to disco=r=se
hearevppon either-1 w=th= the k: or his Counsell , The late hostile
chargeable Action of hir ma=tie= in Britaigne against the Spaniardes ,
both by sea and by land . EDMONDE,209.012.258

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
$Wheare $in {TEXT:Whearein} sum part of the letter it is touched that
the Reuocaco~n of hir ma=ties= forces out of Britaigne , should proue
cumfortable to the ennemie , yowe shall shewe a iust Cawse of hir
ma=ties= reuocaco~n of them . EDMONDE,209.012.259

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffirst the Contract was that theie should be emploied in noe service ,
but for the winning of the ffort of Brest , and then to retorne :
EDMONDE,209.012.260

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
An other iust cawse of reuokinge them was , That wheare it was promised
in the ffrenche k. name by the Ambassado=r= heare , that if o=r= men
would helpe to recouer Morlais to the k. o=r= generall should haue
residence theare for the Cumfort and releef of o=r= Armie :
EDMONDE,209.012.261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
But notw=th=standinge that hir ma=ties= forces procured the rendico~n
of that Towne and Castell , and o=r= generall demandinge it for a place
of retraite for o=r= forces , the Marshall Daumont did not onelie denie
yt , EDMONDE,209.012.262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but deuised an Article betwixt him and that towne , that noe person
showld remaine in that towne , but such as showld professe openlie the
Catholicque Romaine Religion , whearebie he excluded altogether all
Englishe persons , obeinge the Q. ma=tie= and hir Lawes :
EDMONDE,209.012.263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
hearevppon hir ma=tie= resolued to haue them reuoke , as she was
iustlie occasioned to doe by this vnkinde vsage of hir people :
EDMONDE,209.012.264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And whilest hir ma=tie= held this determinacon , she was certainelie
informed that the k. of spaine had sent diuers Capteines w=th= monie
into hir northe part of Ireland to prouoke them to Rebellion w=th=
offer of good forces of men and monie this next springe when time of
the yeare showld serue , EDMONDE,209.012.265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and vppon this occasion hir ma=tie= made the more hast to revoke of
thes that weare in Britaigne , to be shipped into Ireland ,
EDMONDE,209.012.266

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and in December last sent shippinge for the same , pretendinge that the
hauen of Morlais was fittest to imbarque hir forces , consideringe
theie laie neare to the towne of Morlais in sondrie places :
EDMONDE,209.012.267

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but even yesterdaie hir ma=tie= hath herd the w=ch= she taketh vearie
vnkindlye , that hir shippes offeringe to cum into the hauen for that
purpose , weare prohibited to enter , and forced to theire danger to
goe to the sea againe : EDMONDE,209.012.268

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and so hauinge trauersed the seas w=th= contrarye windes , theie weare
forced to <P_210> putt in at Rosio ; EDMONDE,210.012.269

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Of this late vnkinde part to her people and shippes , hir ma=tie=
taketh vearie sharpe impression , thinkinge althowgh yt $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} be nowe remedied that is past , yet the k. will lett the
marshall vnderstand howe inhumaine a part this is , to keepe owt hir
ma=ties= shippes from theire succo=ur= in that hauen , w=ch= hir people
chiefelie procured to be recouered to the k. obedience .
EDMONDE,210.012.270

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
It maie be that yowe shall not haue oportunitie for the k. greater
affaires to open thes hir ma=ties= griefues to the k :
EDMONDE,210.012.271

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but yet yowe shall doe well to gett sum oportunitie to open the same to
Villeroy , and likewise to the Marshall Bouillon , EDMONDE,210.012.272

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And thus hauinge at good lengthe explaned vnto yowe sufficient reasons
to shewe the Q. ma=ties= Actions to haue been vearie important to the
hurt of the k. of Spaine , and to hir excessiue charges both-1 of
treasure and people , whearew=th= the k. maie haue cawse to be
satisfied w=th=out vrginge hir ma=tie= to doe more then is in hir power
. EDMONDE,210.012.273

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I doe receaue from yowe frequentlye letters by common Couriers ,
whearew=th= I am vearie well satisfied to heare often howe thinges doe
passe , EDMONDE,210.012.274

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but I finde the charge of them so greate and so frequent , as I could
wishe yowe , not to send so often letters w=th= so small
aduertisementes but to reserve the writinge of yo=r= letters to matters
of moment and necessarye to be knowen . EDMONDE,210.012.275

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I mervaile that yowe could neuer cum to the vnderstandinge of a secrett
treatie that hath been theare duringe the time of the L. of Wemmes
beinge theare , by the meanes of the B. of Glasco , whoe is nowe knowen
to be the k. of Scottes ordinarye Ambassado=r= theare , whoe hath
treated and concluded of the Renouaco~n of an ancient league betwene
France and Scotland : and hath yelded to thes pointes heareafter
followinge . EDMONDE,210.012.276

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffirst that the Prince of Scotland the k. sonne shall haue a great
pention , and a Band of men at Armes in ffrance . EDMONDE,210.012.277

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Likewise that theare shall be a Complete gard of Scottishmen abowt the
k. person , as in Ancient time hath been : And that also the Prince
shall haue heareafterwardes a Seignorye in Xanteigne , and all Scottish
people shall be free to trafficque by sea and land in France , w=th=owt
paieng anie more Customes , then in Ancient times theie weare wont to
doe ; A matter vearie benefitiall to all the Nation , and hurtfull to
o=r= merchantes . EDMONDE,210.012.278

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Thes thinges wee heare are agreed on , and writinges theareof , at this
time carried theareof into Scotland , by the L. of <P_211> Wemmes ,
EDMONDE,211.012.279

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and I feare the reportes be to trewe , althowgh I could neuer finde
from yowe that yowe had anie savor hereof : EDMONDE,211.012.280

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and howe yowe maie cum to the knowledge hereof , I must leaue yt to
yo=r= owne discretion . EDMONDE,211.012.281

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And so wisshing yowe more hable than I am sure yowe are to take this
Journeie in hand I make an ende , EDMONDE,211.012.282

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I meane that M=r= Lake shall haue sum portion of monie aforehand for
yo=r= helpe at this time . EDMONDE,211.012.283

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffrom the Co=r=t this xxiij=th= of January 1594 . EDMONDE,211.012.284

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:75
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_012:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= lovinge frend W. Burghley . EDMONDE,211.012.285

<Q_EDM_C_1595_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_013> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_219>

{ED:XCII._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes . EDMONDE,219.013.286

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
The reason whie yo=w= haue not receaued anie letters from hence , hath
ben in regarde that yo=w= might be fullie aduertised of all thinges
passed vppon the departure of the ffr. Embassadour whose staie hath
bene occasioned partly by his owne Indisposicon of health , as also
<paren> and that especiallie </paren> to the intent he might receaue
aunswere to diuerse Proposicions made by him on the kinges behalfe .
EDMONDE,219.013.287

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= shall therfore vnderstande that after the king by his letters
vnto him , <P_220> had required him to communicat his purpose of
proclaming warre against the king of Spaine <paren> Wherin he desired
to knowe her ma=tes= lyking </paren> even whiles shee was in
consultacon of aunswere to be made him , there came hether in y=e=
instant , an other letter w=th= y=e= publicacon in print . Whervppon
yo=w= maie perceaue by y=e= memoriall herew=th= sent yo=w= , in what
sort y=e= Queene hath deliuered her resolution , <paren> w=th= w=ch=
even as it is there sett downe , and so deliuered to the Embassad=rs=
hand for his Memoriall </paren> y=e= Embassadour doth depart , w=th=
her ma=tes= good fauour , as one whose carriage here , hath wonne
himselfe reputacon , both-8 for zeale to the king his masters seruice ,
and honest desire to conserue all good Intelligence betwene y=e= two
Princes , so as he shall no sooner returne then be welcome .
EDMONDE,220.013.288

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= shall perceaue also by ye manner of his declaracon , w=th=in what
boundes her may=tie= containeth herselfe , as a prince whose
magnanimitie is constant both to offend the king of Spaine , and defend
her Neighbours and Allies , as heretofore shee hath done , in greater
proportion then any Prince in Europe : EDMONDE,220.013.289

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and yet when shee considereth some what of her owne estate , her
may=tie= intendeth not vppon the soddaine by anie direct promyse in
particuler to giue aduantage to anie to ingage her further then y=e=
reasone of her owne affaires will permytt . EDMONDE,220.013.290

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
So as in yo=wr= deliuerie yo=w= shall do well to obserue the generall
scope of her ma=tes= aunswere for w=ch= yo=w= are nowe prouided , if
y=e= Ambassad=rs= Report should vary from her ma=tes= meaning , who
notw=th=standing that shee will not at this soddaine more particulerlie
promyse the ffrench king newe ayd ; yet is her care of him to great ,
<paren> for want of support </paren> to suffer him at any tyme to
receaue the least preiudice yo=w= shall also receaue herew=th= ,
certaine complaintes sent hether to the Embassdo=rs= from y=e= Mar=all=
DAumont , against S=r=. Jo: Norreis , whose returne from Brittaigne
being dailie expected her may=tie= was very desirous that in the ffr.
Emb=r=. heareing he might be charged , as one , whose former seruices ,
assured her maytie to well of him , to condemne him of any of theise
imputations , EDMONDE,220.013.291

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and yet such is her manner of respect of the king her brother , or any
of his , as in the hearing of iiij=or= of her Privie Counsell <paren>
the Embassadour himselfe being present </paren> theise Complaintes were
redde and vrged against him by me , and his Replycacon~s parliculerly
heard to every article , the substance whereof I do heare send yo=w= ,
the originall vnder his hande remaining w=th= myselfe .
EDMONDE,220.013.292

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
What his aunsweres be , yo=w= will perceaue , EDMONDE,220.013.293

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but for avoyding further Contestaco~n , <P_221> except yo=w= heare any
reporte made , of partiallitie vsed by the Queene towardes her seruant
, because shee condemned him not , yo=w= shall not need to present in
writing this particularitie ; EDMONDE,221.013.294

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffor to tell yo=w= true , so much hath S=r= John Norreis conceaved
himselfe to be iniured , as he hath ben hardly contained from
Replycacons , w=th= as much bytternes as {with} he hath ben charged ,
EDMONDE,221.013.295

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and in his Originall w=ch= I haue heare , he hath giuen almost y=e=
flatt worde of a lye . EDMONDE,221.013.296

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
But this I wryte to yo=w= but in pryvate , EDMONDE,221.013.297

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and haue corrected in y=e= Aunswere sent to yo=w= . EDMONDE,221.013.298

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
By yo=wr= last letters of the first of ffebruarie by M=r= Gorges man ,
her may=tie= perceaued the desastre hapned vnto him , wherof her
may=tie= hath had the lesse care , for that shee perceaued by the
kinges owne letter to his Embassadour , that he would not suffer him to
remaine vnrecouered , especiallie being sent only vnto him , and it
being knowen howe many waies in theise tymes of Composico~ns w=ch= he
maketh w=th= diuerse Leaguers , and by so many exchanges of Prisoners
taken daylie on other syde , he may w=th= small difficultye , free a
gent , being nether in seruice against y=m= nor able of himselfe to pay
ij=c= crownes Randsome ; Althoughe it is true that he is a younger
brother of a very good and honorable Race . EDMONDE,221.013.299

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
So as for that matter her may=tie= requireth yo=w= to imploy
yo=wr=selfe most carefullie to procure from the king some present
Remedye : EDMONDE,221.013.300

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and lykewise her may=tie= would haue yo=w= to deuise to send w=th= some
Trumpett somebody to see in what state he is , to learne vppon what
termes they stande and to comfort the gent : EDMONDE,221.013.301

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and yet w=th=out any such thing in writing as <paren> falling into
their handes may not make y=m= set his Randsome higher . ffor w=ch=
cause I pray yo=w= let him knowe , that thoughe I forbeare to aunswere
his letter , by another w=ch= happely might fall into their handes :
yet that he doe assure himselfe both of the care her may=tie= taketh ,
and that among y=e= rest of his friendes he hath none that shall more
carefully imploy himselfe for his Redemption then I will ; Wherin yo=w=
may comfort him , that thoughe this accydent hath ben in y=e= beginning
infortunate , yet it may be hereafter no small motyve for her may=tie=
to relieue him , and grace him . EDMONDE,221.013.302

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= may let him knowe that y=e= Queene w=th= her owne hand , hath
also written to y=e= ffr. king for him . EDMONDE,221.013.303

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
It is reported that y=e= Gouuerno=r= of Soyssons is a gent. of good
reputaco~n , EDMONDE,221.013.304

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and therefore it is not to be doupted that any man that comes from
yo=w= may speake w=th= him , EDMONDE,221.013.305

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
for humanitie in theise cases never prohibittes it , when thinges fall
out by fortune of warres . EDMONDE,221.013.306

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I am <P_222> of opinion that ether this bearer or some other of y=e=
Postes there , of best discreco~n may be y=e= most fyt messenger in
this matter ; all w=ch= I leave to yo=wr= discreco~n .
EDMONDE,222.013.307

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And so I Committ yo=w= to God . EDMONDE,222.013.308

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffrom y=e= Corte at Lambethe y=e= 22=th= of ffeb. 1594 .
EDMONDE,222.013.309

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=wr= loving friend Ro: Cecyll EDMONDE,222.013.310

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
yow may let him knoe y=t= his Man shall come to him when we heare from
yow of any Newes from him EDMONDE,222.013.311

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_013:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
To my verie louing friend M=r= Thomas Edmondes remaining w=th= the
ffrench king for Ma=tes= Affaires EDMONDE,222.013.312

<Q_EDM_C_1595_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_014> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_270>

{ED:CIX._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes . EDMONDE,270.014.313

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= shall vnderstand that Mons=r= Lominy hath had his audience ,
EDMONDE,270.014.314

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and for y=e= reasonnes contained in her ma=tes= Letters to yo=w= is
very lyke to haue the aunswere w=ch= is contained in y=e= same ;
EDMONDE,270.014.315

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
But hereof her ma=tie= would haue y=e= king informed by yo=w= , and at
full length to y=e= end he maie know the iust reasonnes of the same :
EDMONDE,270.014.316

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
for as it is not a denyall but a suspence , so I assure yo=w= in
pryvate that this mans choler , and menaces , hath made it y=e= worse
for y=e= present . EDMONDE,270.014.317

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
But forasmuch as her Ma=tie= , heareth , that y=e= king when he knowes
y=e= substance of letters not to satisfie him , will not haue y=e=
patience to heare the wholle Circumstance , and because it may be that
this man will Report y=e= worst , her ma=tie= commendeth it to yo=r=
dexteritie and discretion to vse y=e= matter so as to gett accesse to
y=e= king before he arryve , and to put into ffrench this letter ,
whereof yo=w= may iustly say you haue the English originall , and to
shewe it him and desire him to reade it , as well as shee did his last
whole letter at length to La Fontaine of y=e= xiij {ED:?} of Sept: from
Lyons , to w=ch= this is an aunswere , <P_271> w=ch= was delyvered her
even y=e= same day that L'omynie arrived . EDMONDE,271.014.318

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And because it is here reported , that his Secretaries only reade his
letters , and that he hath but y=e= substance giuen him of yea , or noe
; yo=w= shall doe y=e= Queene good service if yo=w= handle it so
finelie as that it may be all readd by himself and in tyme :
EDMONDE,271.014.319

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
for tomorrowe L'omynie hath his dispatche , EDMONDE,271.014.320

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} gonne Post , EDMONDE,271.014.321

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but I hope this man will over ryde him . EDMONDE,271.014.322

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= must conceale y=e= effect of yo=r= letter till yo=w= may speake
w=th= y=e= king , and say that yo=w= haue heard L'omynie is sicke , or
some such thing to mak him greedie to speake w=th= yo=w= first .
EDMONDE,271.014.323

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} send yo=w= y=e= letter w=ch= y=e= king wrytt
to La ffontain , EDMONDE,271.014.324

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
but theise are y=e= heddes in this Paper inclosed . EDMONDE,271.014.325

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
I haue represented to y=e= Q. the extremities yo=w= are in ,
EDMONDE,271.014.326

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and I hope yo=wr= returne will nowe approache , EDMONDE,271.014.327

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
for y=e= Q. will send an Ambassado=r= to y=e= kinge ,
EDMONDE,271.014.328

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and so I commytt yo=w= to God . EDMONDE,271.014.329

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffrom y=e= Cort at Nonesuch y=e= viij=th= of October 1595 .
EDMONDE,271.014.330

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= Loving friend Ro: Cecyll . EDMONDE,271.014.331

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_014:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
To my Loving friend M=r= Edmondes . EDMONDE,271.014.332

{COM:MEMORANDUM_OMITTED}

<Q_EDM_C_1595_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_015> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_279>

{ED:CXII._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes . EDMONDE,279.015.333

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Her ma=tie= having vnderstood very latelie that Mons=r= Lominye , laie
long at y=e= seaside , did cause enquirie to be made , what might be
y=e= occasion : whervppon she hath vnderstoode that he was staied ,
partlie by contrarie windes , and also for want of a shipp to wafte him
over : EDMONDE,279.015.334

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And therfore her ma=tie= suspecting by y=e= mannor of his sower and
sullen carriag here , That he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} as apt , to make
y=e= worste of all thinges there , hath nowe Comanded me expresslie to
assure yo=w= , That whatsoever impedyment he did find besides the
aduerse wyndes , was merely w=th=out her ma=tes= knowledg , or any sett
purpose , of any of her mynisters . EDMONDE,279.015.335

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= shall therfore vnderstand . That vppon y=e= departure of S=r= Ha:
Palmer w=th= dyverse of her ma=ties= shippes to y=e= westwardes , that
small remaine left in y=e= narrowe seas of shippes and Pynnaces was
commanded to attend y=e= wafting of her ma=tes= merchantes shippes to
myddleburghe , and other places , more precisely then vsually they did
. W=ch= order was nowe y=e= rather taken for that my lo: Admirall hath
ben informed That his men that were Cap=ens= of y=e= shippes did make
their pryvate gaine of wafting over $almost {ED:?} every com~on
Passenger ; so as it may well be , that $because {ED:?} Mons=r= Lomynie
at his comming to Rye , had not some letter from my l. Adm=rll= of
dyreccon~ to any of y=e= Cap=ens= there : for w=ch= my L. Adm=rll=
assures her may=tie= that Mons=r= L'omynie never voutsafed so much as
to send to him to demaund it , that he might be denyed to be receaved :
EDMONDE,279.015.336

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
for otherwise her ma=tie= would haue yo=w= make it knowen , That shee
holdes to great a Respect to y=e= ffr. king , and knowes to well what
belonges to her owne honor to haue denyed a publyke ministers such a
favour . EDMONDE,279.015.337

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And therefore her ma=tie= Req=rs= yo=w= , even w=th= great dexteritie
and discreccon~ , both-1 to anticipat and aunswere such Reportes
contryved by him or any other , of any ill Treatem=t= vsed towardes him
, wherin yo=w= may add , That her ma=tie= hath bestowed to many offices
of kyndnes vppon y=e= king nowe to darken or shaddowe y=e= same , w=th=
any such trifling accident . EDMONDE,279.015.338

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
This being all I haue for y=e= present fytt to wryte vnto yo=w= , I
will here make an end , having labored as much to my small power for
the Reliefe of yo=r= particuler , as any friend yo=w= haue , wherof I
haue good Testimony , EDMONDE,279.015.339

<P_280>

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
and I doe hope vppon y=e= comming over of some Embassado=rs= of her
ma=tes= that yo=w= shall find contentment . EDMONDE,280.015.340

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
And thus I commytt yo=w= to God . EDMONDE,280.015.341

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
ffrom y=e= Cort at Richemond y=e= xiiij of No: 1595 .
EDMONDE,280.015.342

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= loving friend Ro: Cecyll . EDMONDE,280.015.343

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:32?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:31?
LETTER:EDMONDE_015:E2:1595:COPY:OTHER
To my very loving friend M=r= Thomas Edmondes her Ma=tes= Agent w=th=
the king of Fraunce . EDMONDE,280.015.344

<Q_EDM_C_1597_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_016> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_303>

{ED:CXIX._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
M=r= Edmondes . EDMONDE,303.016.345

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Vntill this very day wee haue not heard one worde of yo=w= since your
departure , w=ch= kept vs in douptfulnes of your safetie till by your
letter bearing date the xix=th= of this moneth her may=tie= receaved
full and ample satisfaccon for as much as concerned your owne
proceadinge EDMONDE,303.016.346

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
only that w=ch= yo=w= wrytt concerning the Truce , or Peace , did not
so clearely make mencion of the partyculer point , whether her may=tie=
should be by the agreament betwene them comprehended in the same or noe
, as by a letter from Mo=r= Villeroy it appeareth , wherin he wrote to
Mo=r= ffontaine w=th= theis wordes . EDMONDE,303.016.347

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Yo=w= maie let the Queene knowe , <paren> for I speake it not by
hearesay </paren> that her may=tie= is comprehended by the assent of
the Spaniard into the Treatie , EDMONDE,303.016.348

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and therefore yo=w= shall do well in y=e= next to wryte what yo=w=
heare , althoughe I doupt not before the arryvall of this ,
EDMONDE,303.016.349

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but wee shall heare more by the personne that the kinge sendes hither .
EDMONDE,303.016.350

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The present occasion of this dispatche is shortly this .
EDMONDE,303.016.351

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
This very day advertysement is come to the Queene of the ffleet of
Spaine w=ch= is issued from fferoll and the Groyne the viij=th= of this
moneth beinge sayle w=th= souldyers Maryners and many Mylls for Corne ,
many woemen , horse and many Materyalls for ffortificacon~s .
EDMONDE,303.016.352

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
That this is no ffable yo=w= may advertyse the king , that a small man
of warre of England being at sea fell into their company in y=e= night
in a storme , and seing one of their small shippes in distres to the
Leewarde , bare vp w=th= her , fought w=th= her , and tooke her ;
EDMONDE,303.016.353

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but after he had possessed her , and thought to beare for Ingland ,
some of the ffleet chased her , EDMONDE,303.016.354

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and so she was forced to let her goe , EDMONDE,303.016.355

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but tooke out seaven men of her , the Cap=en= , the master , and others
, whose examinacon~s being taken at Plymmothe , was sent vp this day ,
and contayneth what before I spoke of , and that their Rendes vous was
to come for ffalmoth . EDMONDE,303.016.356

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
This being certaine that at sea they were mett , and it appearing fully
, that but for the east wyndes w=ch= haue blowen straynably , they had
ben at their Place of descent , hath given her may=tie= iust cause to
looke about her , having nowe no ffleet in readynes to fight w=th=
<P_304> them at Sea , EDMONDE,304.016.357

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but o {ED:OBLITERATED} trust to the land defence , EDMONDE,304.016.358

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And therefore she lytle doupteth {ED:OBLITERATED} king wyll in any sort
myslyke the sodden revocacon~ of the Troupes Of Pycardy to serve
herselfe . EDMONDE,304.016.359

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
ffor this is of all certentye , EDMONDE,304.016.360

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
ether it is for Irelande or Englande , EDMONDE,304.016.361

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
yf for Englande , then are wee to doupt the taking in of the Army of
the Lowe Contreys to be transported , w=ch= <paren> as it falleth out
</paren> need not feare ffraunce if the Truce be made as all the world
sayes it is , and as shrewd circumstances discover :
EDMONDE,304.016.362

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
ffor wee see the Car=all= hath lost Amyens , followes not Count Mawryce
, but keepes his fforces togeither and nowe soddenly drawes them downe
to the sea syde . EDMONDE,304.016.363

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
This her may=tie= Requires yo=w= to lay feelinglie before the king , as
Reasones sufficient to dispence w=th= her Revocacon~ , the Erle of
Essex having most of her ma=tes= Cap=ens= in y=e= voyag , and theie
being fitt to be imployed in this kingedome , if he should attempt y=e=
Ile of Wight or any Place nere the harte of the kingdome .
EDMONDE,304.016.364

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
This being all at this tyme w=ch= my leasure will permytt me to wryte
exspecting howerly to heare of their arryvall if the storme haue not
forced them to their owne coast againe . EDMONDE,304.016.365

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And so I commytt yo=w= to God . EDMONDE,304.016.366

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
ffrom y=e= Cort at Whithall the xxvj=th= of Oct. at xj=en= in y=e=
night . EDMONDE,304.016.367

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Your louing frend Ro: Cecyll . EDMONDE,304.016.368

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Yf they be gone for Ireland they fynd it at an evyll tyme ,
EDMONDE,304.016.369

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_016:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
for the Noble Lo: Burghe is dead of Sycknes the xiiij=th= of this
moneth . EDMONDE,304.016.370

<Q_EDM_C_1597_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_017> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_ROBERT_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563?>

<P_317>

{ED:CXXIV._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_ROBERT_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor honor . Monsr de Sillery retourned four or fyve
daies since from St Quentin EDMONDE,317.017.371

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and was followed twoe daies after by the Generall of the Cordeliers .
Since the wch tyme the King hath held diuers seacrett Counsells wth the
said Monsr de Sillery Monsr de Bellieure and Monsr de Villeroy wth whom
onlie he doth comunicatt of that negotiation of the peace .
EDMONDE,317.017.372

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And by reason that the K: came not untill this daie from St Germains ,
the Generall of the Cordeliers hath not yett had audience of the Kinge
, EDMONDE,317.017.373

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but Monsr de Bellieure and Monsr de Villery haue had conference with
him . EDMONDE,317.017.374

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Betweene the K: and the said three Counsellors , this treatie is
carried wth greatest secrecie , so as verie fewe others haue true
knowledge thereof EDMONDE,317.017.375

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and where they are forced to speake they delyuer that the Spanyard doth
instant them by verie plausible offers , yealdinge to render all their
places : EDMONDE,317.017.376

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but the Mareshall of Byron whose name I beseech yor honor maie be
concealed was content to tell me truely that the Cardinall doth p~pound
a Truce for four yeares & in that respect p~mising to raze all the
places wch he houldeth belonging to them except Calles and Ardres , wch
is onlie to come to his first offer . EDMONDE,317.017.377

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The Mareshall tould me that the K: reiecteth this motion , saying that
he will not assent to a truce for longer then three monethes but that
some doe p~swade him earnestlie seing he hath not the meanes at this
tyme to reduce the Spanyard to better reason to be content in respecte
of his great necessitie to dispence wth his honor for the p~sent , and
to accept of the said truce to thend to geiue ffrance some rest to
recouer it self , and that he maie hereafter better take Calles when
ffrance $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} in better state , the wch p~swasion
they doe fortifye wth the reason that ffrance is more interessed in the
honor , then in the utyllitie of the said place , being in so remote
p~te , as they $can $not {TEXT:cannott} receiue much anoyance by it .
EDMONDE,317.017.378

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
They stryue verie much to keepe it from knoweledge that the Spa: doth
<P_318> stand uppon so stif tearmes towardes them , to thende to
Intymatt still to her ma=tie=. and the States that it letteth not in
their power , but in their will that they make not a peace .
EDMONDE,318.017.379

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Add I fynde they haue a stronge suspition , seing the Spanyard
notwthstanding his great necessitie doth remain on his ostentation ,
And because also her matie is not more heated wth the p~positions made
by Monsr de Messe to enlarge herself more towardes them that her matie
will rather harken to a privatt reconcylliation wth the Spanyard ,
EDMONDE,318.017.380

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
yett some others are of contrarie opinion , that the Spanyard carrying
a mynde of greatest reuenge against her matie , doth desier to make his
peace last wth her matie . EDMONDE,318.017.381

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Because in another consideration it hath ben thought that the Jallousie
betweene England and ffrance of not liking that either should attayn
anie possession in the lowe Countries maie be cause of hindrance , that
they do not well concurre in the warre against the Spanyard , it hath
ben therefore p~posed to mynister their assistances to a third p~son ,
either the Counte Maurice or other . EDMONDE,318.017.382

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Seing both Princes agree in com~on desseing , that it is necessarie for
their securitie to dispossess the Spanyard of those Countries . This
hath ben app~ued so as it maie not hinder them of their librtie to make
a peace , on the wch condition they are content to p~mise anie
assistances underhand , and afterwardes to p~fourme nothing .
EDMONDE,318.017.383

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The newes of the disposing of the lowe Countries to the Cardynall , and
the Infant of Spayne , hath not ben otherwise confirmed than by the
first report thereof , wch is said to be grounded on a letter wrytten
by the K: of Spayne to those of the lowe Countries , by the wch he
signifieth his resolution to bestow those Countries , and the franche
Countie on the Cardynall and the Infant , and that the said letter was
accompanied wth another letter of approbation from the Prince of Spayne
, but that the K: 's letter imported to know according to the forme of
their p~veledges howe they could be content to ratifye the said
ellection so as the K: of Spayne hath not as yet passed anie acte of
the gift of the said Countries to the Cardynall . EDMONDE,318.017.384

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And in that also the Cardynall doth not p~ceade in warmer sorte in the
treatie for his owne interest sake , it maketh them here to thincke ,
that the said Countries are not as yett absolutelie graunted .
EDMONDE,318.017.385

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Uppon these uncertainties in the meane tyme the Kinge doth p~vyde wth
greater Care then before , both to leaue a stronge armye in Pycardie
under the charge of the Connestables , and the Mareshall of Byron , wch
is alreadie ordred , and the p~uisions thereof assigned for four
monethes , EDMONDE,318.017.386

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And also seameth <P_319> to be more heated to p~fourme the journey of
Brittayne EDMONDE,319.017.387

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and assureth that he will not receiue Monsr de Mercure to composition ,
notwthstanding anie instances that he maketh but wth Condition that he
shall delyuer him the Castle of Nantes , and the Townes wch he houldeth
belonging to p~ticuler lords , whereby to leaue him gouuernor onlie in
tytle . EDMONDE,319.017.388

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Those of the Province doe verie instantlie presse his Coming ,
EDMONDE,319.017.389

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and say they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} suffer the p~longation of the
Truce , by the wch they p~tend to be more ruyned then by the warres ,
EDMONDE,319.017.390

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and p~mise to furnish him wth large meanes to ruyne Monsr de Mercure .
EDMONDE,319.017.391

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The k: being aduertised that the Counte Challigny Brother to the Duke
Mercure is making a levye about lorrayne of some nombr of lansquenettes
to embarque them at Callas and Donkerke to passe into Bryttanie for the
succor of his Brother , hath praied me to beseech her ma=tie= to be
pleased to geiue order to some of her shippes in the narrowe seas to
lye to intercept them . EDMONDE,319.017.392

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
It is aduertised hither that the King of Spayne hath nowe compounded
wth the marchantes bancquiers to whome he is indebted , hauing assigned
them for their remboursement certeine receiptes of Spayne , and also
p~mised to delyuer them twoe myllions at euerie retourne of his Jndian
fleetes in consideration whereof that they haue entred into a newe
couuenant to furnishe him monethlie wth thousand Crownes for the lowe
Countries , and thousand for Spayne . EDMONDE,319.017.393

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The Cardynall not fynding himself as yett pressed by anie necessitie it
is thought he will not treate to pourpose untill he be assayled a newe
by an army on the frontiers . EDMONDE,319.017.394

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de Villeroy and the Counstable wth whom I haue of late had
speache doe contynue to p~test earnestlie , that in anie question
either-1 of a truce or otherwise , the King is spetiallie carefull to
remember her mat~ interest , EDMONDE,319.017.395

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but they denyed to be uppon anie such conclusion . EDMONDE,319.017.396

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
It is wrytten out of Itallie that at the instance of the Venetians the
Pope hath deferred for twentie daies longer to declare the
excommunication against Don Cesar . EDMONDE,319.017.397

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
The p~parations are sayd to be verie great wch the Turcke maketh this
yeare both-3 by sea & land , and that he hath remoued his old vicier ,
and chosen one of much more sufficiency in his place .
EDMONDE,319.017.398

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
He is sending one hither to the King called a Moultafarraga wth a
p~sent of horses and other thinges . EDMONDE,319.017.399

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de St Aldegonde is retourned hither wthout hauing ben able to
p~cure the Gouuerment of Granges to be resigned according to the K 's
Comandement on the behalf of the Counte Maurice , accusing Monsr
Dedignieres to haue empeached the <P_320> same . EDMONDE,320.017.400

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Paris the 26=th= of Decembr
<font> 1597 </font> . EDMONDE,320.017.401

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
yor honors most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,320.017.402

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
I humblie beseeche yor honor to be pleased to send me some answeare to
the complaint of the Ambr of Venice , for that he doth often sollicitt
me about the same . EDMONDE,320.017.403

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_017:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable S=r=. Robert Cecyll knight Principall Secretarie
to the Queens Ma=tie=. and Chancelor of the Duchie of Lancaster .
EDMONDE,320.017.404

<Q_EDM_C_1597_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_018> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_320>

{ED:CXXV._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
M=r=. Edmondes : EDMONDE,320.018.405

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
It is no highe tyme That I do certifie yo=w= of the receipt of all
yo=r= packetts <paren> whereof I receaved iiij=or= dated in October and
Nouember and two in december </paren> And that her may=tie= is very
well satisfied w=th= yo=r= proceadinges . EDMONDE,320.018.406

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
What Mons=r= de Maisse had to propounde yo=w= knowe well enoughe
EDMONDE,320.018.407

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
and therefore I need not touche it : EDMONDE,320.018.408

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
But in short this yo=w= shall knowe . That the States refuse Treatye ,
desire the Queene to stoppe her eares to it , and doe send to Roane
deputies to meet the king or his ministers whom they hope also to
overcome w=th= infaylible argum=tes= , and to moue him to contynue in a
warre , rather than to make peace ; EDMONDE,320.018.409

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Her May=tie= therefore being desirous to heare howe thinges are carryed
there , and to see howe the kinge digesteth this their refusall will
send over also some deputies , to ioyne in Conferrence w=th= the kinges
Mynisters and theirs , to the intent that as they are all in a Bande of
Confederacy , so they may ioyntly resolue ether to giue eare to Treatye
, or to provyde <P_321> for warres contynuance , and then each other
open , what one party will have of an other and howe they are able to
performe it , or to hold it out W=th= this Resolucion
EDMONDE,321.018.410

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Th'embassadour is lyke to come away , w=ch= is the sowndest and most
necessary ; EDMONDE,321.018.411

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
ffor to treat w=th= Spaine before this Conferrence , were not in good
proporcion , EDMONDE,321.018.412

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but because he hath not yet had this aunswere giuen him , yo=w= may
make vse of it only as yo=r= discrecion shall serve yo=w= .
EDMONDE,321.018.413

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
Other thinges for the present I haue not worthy yo=r= knowledge
EDMONDE,321.018.414

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
but do rest assuredly . Yo=r= loving freinde Ro: Cecyll .
EDMONDE,321.018.415

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
from the Lowe Contryes comes Monsr. Barneuelt and Mons. Justynian
Nassau . EDMONDE,321.018.416

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
from England as yet , it is not knowen who . EDMONDE,321.018.417

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
from y=e= Cort at Whithall the xxxj=th= of decem. 1597 .
EDMONDE,321.018.418

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:33?
LETTER:EDMONDE_018:E2:1597:COPY:OTHER
To my very Lovinge freinde M=r= Thomas Edmondes Esq=r= her Ma=ties=
Agent w=th= the frenche kinge . EDMONDE,321.018.419

<Q_EDM_AC_1598_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_019> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_329>

{ED:CXXX._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I conceaue you haue receaued my Letter , by my L. of Southamton wherby
you see y=e= Cawse of my Alteration w=ch= now I find , concurres w=th=
y=e= Necessity of y=e= Time . EDMONDE,329.019.420

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I came hyther yesternight , EDMONDE,329.019.421

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
and will this night come to Pontoise , and so not be at Paris before
Wednesday EDMONDE,329.019.422

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
Only this I do desire y=t= I may not come in to Paris late ,
EDMONDE,329.019.423

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
for y=t= were disagreable to me for many Respects which you can
coniecture . EDMONDE,329.019.424

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I haue not paied this Post , becawse I know not whyther you haue alredy
paied him , EDMONDE,329.019.425

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I pray you satisfy him EDMONDE,329.019.426

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
and I will then dischardg you of all when I see you ,
EDMONDE,329.019.427

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I haue receaued yo=r= letters concerning y=e= Prisoner w=th= whom I
will speake and proceed as I find Cawse . EDMONDE,329.019.428

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I doe see very great Care and Affection in yo=r= Proceeding w=th= me
w=ch= I will acknoledge and requite . EDMONDE,329.019.429

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I will so order my Journey from Pontoise as to be in Paris to morrow
between 3. and 4. EDMONDE,329.019.430

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
The less shoting , or none at all , y=t= mought be I wold be very
<P_330> gladd of , for that my horses of my Coch and y=t= w=ch= I ryde
on , will in no sort endure it . EDMONDE,330.019.431

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
But y=t= I leaue to yo=r= discretion soe to order it , w=ch= must be as
it may be . EDMONDE,330.019.432

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
And so in haste I end Yo=r= louing and ass: frend Ro: Cecyll .
EDMONDE,330.019.433

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
From Magny this Twesday at 9 of clock being the 28=th= of Feb: 97
EDMONDE,330.019.434

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
I haue geuen him six Crownes because he importuned me for money .
EDMONDE,330.019.435

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
LETTER:EDMONDE_019:E2:1598:AC:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my very Loving frend M=r= Thos Edmunds , her Ma=tes=
Agent w=th= the french king . EDMONDE,330.019.436

<Q_EDM_C_1598_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_020> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_ROBERT_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563?>

<P_347>

{ED:CXXXIV._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_ROBERT_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor honor . By the Comoditie of this Bearers retourne I
thought it my duetie to trouble yor honor that Ardres and Dourlans are
not yett rendred , the Archeduke being troubled to fynd monie for the
contenting of the said garrisons wch will cost him twoe hundred
thousand Crownes , EDMONDE,347.020.437

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
howebeitt , it is not meant to stay the ostages thereuppon ,
EDMONDE,347.020.438

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but hauing seen ffountainebleau they are also gonne to passe the
Monceaux EDMONDE,347.020.439

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and from thence doe dep~te , the Kinge being content to shewe in
Curtesie to trust them touching the said other places wch he doth
assure himself they dare not fayle to satisfie . EDMONDE,347.020.440

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
It is said that by the example of those of Ardres and Dourlans three
other of their cheif regimentes , of la Bourlotte , and others , are
mutyned in Luxembourg , by the wch distractions the Archeduke is so
greatlie incom~odated as it is not thought he can attempt anie thing
this Sommer , EDMONDE,347.020.441

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but rather they app~hend that the Counte Maurice doth p~pare to putt
into the field , and deseigneth to beseege Graue . EDMONDE,347.020.442

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
They are also much discouraged that they fynd not the lowe Countrie
people to be more astonished , & moued wth the peace of ffrance ,
EDMONDE,347.020.443

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and thereby consider howe much more it doth import them to seeke also
to make a peace wth her matie , in respect that they shall fynd still a
strong p~tye , se long as her matie sitteth oute whereby that people
will be kept still in courage , and from disunion , and that it is not
unlikely the King maie hereafter runne underhand courses wth her matie
and the States . EDMONDE,347.020.444

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
As yett I assure yor honor the K: doth not make demonstration of other
affection & inclynation then to gouuerne himself by the p~sent most
probable disposition of thinges to thende thereby to assure his owne
quyett , & ease wch is that doubting out of com~on opinion , howe the
States $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} able to subsist aloone
EDMONDE,347.020.445

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
he would be glad to be an instrument to compound for them ,
EDMONDE,347.020.446

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
for wth the astonishment wch the people maie receiue , it is thought
they $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} chieflie distressed by the interruption of
their trafficque wch is their onlie meanes of <P_348> maintenance ,
EDMONDE,348.020.447

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but if he fynd them able to make their p~tye good , he will then haue
as litle affection to emploie himself in anie such office .
EDMONDE,348.020.448

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And where it is conceiued that the K: should not in pollicye desier to
haue her matie to enter into the peace , the considerations thereof are
truly and iustlie grounded , if being wayed by generall maximes ,
wherein there is noe p~ticuler end , EDMONDE,348.020.449

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but as p~ticuler doth chieflie swaie herein , by the Kinges desier to
take the most plausible courses for the privatt respectes wch I
mentioned in my former , So there be manie others here wch out of
sup~stition desier not the p~speritie of the States EDMONDE,348.020.450

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And they moreouer p~tend out of reason of State , that they can haue no
safe and free trafficque so long as her matie $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
in warre . EDMONDE,348.020.451

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And the realme must thereby susteyne other unnecessarie charges .
EDMONDE,348.020.452

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And in shewe that the K: doth effectuallie desier her matie should
enter into the peace , Monsr de villeroy doth p~test daylie most
vehementlie that the K. doth but desier that her matie will make tryall
of him ; for proofe howe he will emploie himselfe therein ; instanting
also p~ticulerlie , that he doth knowe it to be the good & seruice of
the Kinge his Master , et qu'il s'y engagera iusques aux oreilles .
EDMONDE,348.020.453

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
They knowe that the Spanyard doth for his owne interest more then
desier it , EDMONDE,348.020.454

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and therefore they would be gladde to haue the honor to be reputed to
wourke it , and in iustifying their owne first entring , to make it
appeare that there is still a good unyon betweene her matie and them .
EDMONDE,348.020.455

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
The Prince of lorrayne arryued her 7 or 8 daies since ,
EDMONDE,348.020.456

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and where both he and Madame attended confidentlie that their marriage
would haue ben concluded , the Kinge hath enterteyned him wth newe
delaies , to his so great discontentement as hath made him to take a
resolution to retourne into lorraigne , and to leaue the pursuite
thereof to his agent , EDMONDE,348.020.457

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And if it please yor honor I shall playnelie tell you what iudgement
manie make thereof , EDMONDE,348.020.458

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
they say the K: doth delaie the said marriage untill his Sister be past
child bearing to thend to conferre the Kingdom of Nauarra on his
bastard Children . EDMONDE,348.020.459

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de Maisse is retourned from the Counte Soissons wth answeare that
he will shortlie attend the Kinge . EDMONDE,348.020.460

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
I send yor honor herewth a memoriall of certein poyntes wch haue ben
latelie handled by the K 's counsell at St Germains to practise diuers
reformations nowe uppon the peace . EDMONDE,348.020.461

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
The K: hath discharged all the regimentes of the Swisse ,
EDMONDE,348.020.462

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but to gratifie the three Colonells , he <P_349> doth enterteine a
Companie of to each of them , and the same to serue as a regiment to be
seuerallie Comanded by them in their Course . EDMONDE,349.020.463

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
All the french regimentes that are discharged are for the most p~te
gonne to serue the Spanyardes EDMONDE,349.020.464

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
I learne that the Buishoppe of Glasco nowe receiued the Kinge of
Scottes Ambr. here , doth earnestlie sollicitt the said King to send
the Duke of lenox hither to revyue their intelligence wth the house of
lorrayne , and to p~secutt the renewing of their antient allyances wth
this Crowne . EDMONDE,349.020.465

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
The Duke of Sauoy hath made some instance for the marrying of one of
his daughters wth the Prince of Conde' or otherwise wth the K 's
bastard sonne , EDMONDE,349.020.466

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
but it is said the King doth pourpose to marrye the Prince of Conde' to
his owne bastard daughter . EDMONDE,349.020.467

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
A report is come hither that her matie hath greatlie discontented the
States by the staying of certeine shippes of theirs wth monie of great
vallue . EDMONDE,349.020.468

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
The K. reproueth greatlie the Count St Paul for not p~senting himself
to her matie , EDMONDE,349.020.469

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and comendeth much her maties manner of useing him .
EDMONDE,349.020.470

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
It is intended to send shortlie Monsr de Boisise , a catholick & of the
longe gowne to be Ambr. resident wth her matie . EDMONDE,349.020.471

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
The K. deferred his Journey to Callais untill he be aduertised of the
rendring of Ardres and Dourlans EDMONDE,349.020.472

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
and in the meane tyme is gonne to remaine at Monceaux .
EDMONDE,349.020.473

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humblie take my leaue ffrom Paris the twelth of July 1598
. EDMONDE,349.020.474

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
yor honors most humble Tho: Edmondes EDMONDE,349.020.475

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:34?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_020:E2:1598:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable S=r= Robert Cecyll knight Principall Secretarie
to the Queens Matie and Chancelor of the duchie of lancaster .
EDMONDE,349.020.476

<Q_EDM_C_1599_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_021> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_ROBERT_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563?>

<P_390>

{ED:CL._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_ROBERT_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor honor . I haue Comunicated wth the Master of Gray ,
her maties and yor honors letters , the wch after he had seene , he
sayd unto me that although her matie had not wrytten unto himself as he
attended that she would haue ben pleased to haue done , yett for that
he found by the style of her maties letter <paren> wch well appeared to
be her owne </paren> that she contynued in her wonted gratious &
fauorable disposition towardes him , that he rested verie well
satisfied therewth , and desired nothing more then to emploie himself
to doe her matie seruice , and to hould a good correspondence wth yor
honor , renewing his former p~fessions of deuotion to her matie wch I
mentioned in my other letters . EDMONDE,390.021.477

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I tould him that he made a true iudgement of her maties mynd , and that
she doth not vse , as some other Prynces doe , to make trafficque of
her letters & p~mises , but doth Joine p~fourmances to her p~mises when
she is well satisfied that there is true cause of meritt .
EDMONDE,390.021.478

<P_391>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Afterwardes he declared unto me that first touching the removing of the
Buishopp of Glasco , that if her matie iudge it will be a thinge
necessarie , and behovefull for her service , that he doubteth not to
p~cure the same and to be himself established in his charge whereunto
that the legation hither of the Duke of lenox would aptlie serue ,
himself being to be Joyned in Comission wth him . EDMONDE,391.021.479

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He sayd that the Kinge of Spaynes Mynisters at Brussells had earnestlie
sollicited him to goe thither to speake wth them , and that he knew not
as yett wherein they desired to serue their turne of him ; but when he
should haue heard their ouuertures , that then he should be better able
to iudge howe he might best serue her matie . EDMONDE,391.021.480

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He tould me also that the negociations wch the Kinge of Scottes hath
sought to enterteine wth the Spanyard haue ben verie litle regarded by
them , for that appearing that the lord of Oglebye , though he had
charge to make generall Insynuations , yett that he had noe such
spetiall Comission , as he to vallue himself did take uppon him ;
EDMONDE,391.021.481

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
it hath ben cause that the lord of Bouueton hath ben also litle
Creditted in the like p~fessions as since he had charge to make , and
moreouer for that they thincke the said K: is not to be trusted in
respect of his greater necessitie to depend on her maties amities .
EDMONDE,391.021.482

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He sayth that the subject of those Comissions was to p~fesse that
albeitt he durst not nowe to shewe any affection towardes the
Catholickes for feare to allyenne her maties fauor from him and because
in his realme there is so stronge a p~tie against them , yett that
hereafter uppon better comoditie he will make better demonstration
towardes them . And that the lord Sacre that is nowe in Itallie , had
charge to make the like intymation to the Pope desiring to possess them
wth an indifferent opinion & expectacion of him , to thende to dyuert
them from p~secuting anie enterprizes wch should comp~hend his p~iudice
. EDMONDE,391.021.483

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I prayed him to tell me whatt is the enterprize wch the lord Bothwell
designeth to executt in England , EDMONDE,391.021.484

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
he answeared me that he desireth first to enfourme himself whether the
Spanyardes doe soe engage themselfes therein as the lord Bothwell
declared to him , whose assurances he doth not alwaies belieue , and
that he will afterwardes geiue yor honor knoweledge both whatt the said
enterprise is , and howe it is to be p~fourmed . EDMONDE,391.021.485

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I pressed him to declare whether it were intended against anie Port
Towne in England , EDMONDE,391.021.486

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
he did thereof assure me , and that they p~tend to fortifie the said
place . EDMONDE,391.021.487

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but I learne , and he did confirme it to me that the Spanyardes haue
alreadie receiued a <P_392> great distaste of the lord Bothwell for
that hauing geiuen him Crownes aboue the alloweance made to himself to
employ hire for the enterteyning of men , he hath looselie spent the
same . EDMONDE,392.021.488

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Lastlie I desired to know of him whoe the p~tie is for whom he
undertaketh to doe her matie seruice , EDMONDE,392.021.489

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
he sayd he would take some tyme to answeare me therein ,
EDMONDE,392.021.490

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and since tould me that the said p~son doth not thincke fitt as yett ,
to declare himself untill there occurr some good occasion to doe her
matie seruice wch is all that for the p~sent I could drawe from him .
EDMONDE,392.021.491

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He is full of ostentation , according to the disposition of his notion
, EDMONDE,392.021.492

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
yett it is easie to see that he is poore , and irresolutt what course
to shape . EDMONDE,392.021.493

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He shewed nowe afterwardes to be more discontented that her matie was
not pleased to wryte unto him , as heretofore she vouchsafed to doe ,
wch he sayd declared a distrust of him ; or ells that she houldeth him
to be still buryed as she mentioneth in her letter ,
EDMONDE,392.021.494

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but I did satisfie him therein . EDMONDE,392.021.495

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He gaue me this enclosed letter to conveye to yor honor ,
EDMONDE,392.021.496

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and p~mised to accompanie it wth a Cipher , EDMONDE,392.021.497

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but he sent me since wourde that he hath not yett made it readie .
EDMONDE,392.021.498

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humbly take my leaue ffrom Paris the second of Januarie
1598 EDMONDE,392.021.499

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
yor honors most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,392.021.500

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I send yor honor herewth a letter to her matie from the Duke of
Bouillion The comunicating of her ma=t=~ and yor ho=r=~ lr~es wth the
M=r= of Gray . EDMONDE,392.021.501

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Lr~e from ye M=r= of Gray . EDMONDE,392.021.502

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_021:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable S=r=. Robrt Cecyll knight Principall Secretarie
to the Queenes Matie , and Chancelor of the Duchie of Lancaster .
EDMONDE,392.021.503

<Q_EDM_A_1599_T_RCECIL> <L_EDMONDE_022> <A_ROBERT_CECIL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1563?> <R_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1564?>

<P_409>

{ED:CLVI._ROBERT_CECIL_TO_THOMAS_EDMONDES.}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r= Edmunds , You are so well directed <paren> how to proceede w=th=
the french king in this matter concerning the Trade w=ch= he desires to
be so preserved , as I shall not need , to touch it any further ,
EDMONDE,409.022.504

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for you haue both the Queenes letter , and the Declaration in Latin ,
of that w=ch= her <P_410> Ma=ty= is contented to yeald , where in you
may perceaue in the 6 Article that her Ma=ty= trusteth onely vpon the
word of the french king for the matter of Corne ; EDMONDE,410.022.505

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore though in her letter , the stylle be soure , yet seing in
the aunswer authenticall , he is to rest satisfied ,
EDMONDE,410.022.506

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but y=r= discretion will moderate things accordingly
EDMONDE,410.022.507

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for though it be true , that this strange change of the Embassad=rs=
first formalities , and kind Ouuertures , be seconded now w=th= sowre
effects , by his earnest Labour , that all ships may go free into
Spaine <paren> althoughe he would couer it , that he desires , they
might not be searched , because vnder cullor of that , they are robbed
</paren> yet considering how wee haue the Wolf by the eare , and that
it is lyke enoughe they would be gladd to cavell , I do wish you to
pass ouer all sherpenesses , as you may ; EDMONDE,410.022.508

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now that they are Lyke to haue their will <paren> for the Queene
meanes not to stay any of their ships loaden w=th= Corne </paren> I
could wishe also , that they had had it , w=th=out sourness , w=ch=
hath fallen out farr otherwise , as by accident is prooved , whereof I
haue thought good , to geue you <paren> as followeth </paren> a
particular accompt , the rather because you may imprinte some good
prevention , if the Embassad=r= shall complaine as I find he is
disposed ; wherein I must first lett you know , that in my Lyf , I
never saw a more formall , proude chollerick Creature Liuing ; for
instance whereof you $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} Judge by that w=ch=
followeth . EDMONDE,410.022.509

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This matter of spoiles , he made all the beginnings of his negotiations
; EDMONDE,410.022.510

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet wee discouered by his vnwillingness to examine things past ,
and pressing still rather to bethinke of future prevention , and
therein styll to insist vpon the quiett trade $w=th= $all
{TEXT:w=th=all} commodities into Spayne <paren> for the w=ch= doubtles
some merchants follow him w=th= some offer of vtility </paren> that on
that poinct he means to Labour : EDMONDE,410.022.511

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when he was a Little contested w=th=all therein then his Choller
begann thus to mooue . EDMONDE,410.022.512

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for after he had first deliuered his Remonstrance marked w=th= A ,
receaued an aunswer marked w=th= B , EDMONDE,410.022.513

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made his Reply marked w=th= C , being brought again to conferre
w=th= the Lords <paren> who had resolued on the last Aunswer , marked D
, <paren> all w=ch= I send you here included </paren>
EDMONDE,410.022.514

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he at the Counsaill Table <paren> being in deed of no great Judgement
or quicknes </paren> found himself pusseld , when I alleadged a Treaty
between Henry 8 , and Francis the first whereby <paren> contrary to his
contestation , that there was never any such Treaty that so provided
</paren> it appeareth plainelye otherwise , as by the words in this
paper included , you may perceaue . EDMONDE,410.022.515

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so immediatly he made an <P_411> aunswer chollerick that it was in
vayne , to speake of Treaties , when there was no Justice done in
England , but that euery man was robbed at sea , if he carryed but a
bussell of salt . EDMONDE,411.022.516

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To this my Lord Admirall replied , that howsoeuer he had ben informed
it was a great scandale to her Ma=tys= Justice , to affirme it , before
it was proued ; EDMONDE,411.022.517

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore desired him , to be wary in so generall Imputations ,
EDMONDE,411.022.518

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or elss he must think , that he would take him self previledged , being
an Embassad=r= , to say anything . EDMONDE,411.022.519

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This nettled him very much , when he saw how he had ouer shott himself
; EDMONDE,411.022.520

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and about a quarter of an hower after , it was my fortune to fall foull
on him , against my meaning EDMONDE,411.022.521

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that in this sorte , EDMONDE,411.022.522

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When wee had agreed to one of his Articles , that all her Ma=tes=
Subiects Ships might putt in caution , there is one Article , that
speaketh of some provision to be made for preventing disorders , that
the Queenes owne Ships should committ , and that she should putt in
Caution : EDMONDE,411.022.523

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To that it was replied , that it was a very innovated Courss , that the
Queene should become bound for her owne Shipps , wishing him rather
that it might be leaft to the honor of both Princes ,
EDMONDE,411.022.524

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that was fidem Regi adhibendo ; EDMONDE,411.022.525

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To this he with a Saturnine countenance aunswered that he would beleeue
her worde , when wee leaft robbing at Sea : w=ch= being a very generall
and immodest exception , when a Queenes word was in question ,
EDMONDE,411.022.526

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I aunswered , well sir , if that be so , seing her Ma=ty= hath ben
contented to remitt the stay of Corne , vpon trust that the kings
officers will do it in regard of frendship to England , at this instant
onely I must say that wee will beleeue that promise , when wee heare of
no french ships , that go for Spayne w=th= anything elss .
EDMONDE,411.022.527

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To this he very warmely <paren> for so he is of all that euer I saw
</paren> made aunswer , that promises in france were better kept , then
in England ; wherevnto I Replied that he would gett nothing by those
disputations , EDMONDE,411.022.528

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for France ere now hath broken promises sealed w=th= vowes and serments
. EDMONDE,411.022.529

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herevpon the Magnifico fell in a great rage , EDMONDE,411.022.530

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and said , his Masters honor was touched , EDMONDE,411.022.531

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I aunswered , though he begann to touch my Souueraigns honor in
Individuo , I named not the king his master , but honored y=e= king as
much as any Gentleman ded in England , and had at my retourn euen at
the conclusion of this peace , don as good offices , as he could do ;
EDMONDE,411.022.532

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the trueth is , I saw , he was sett on , to be splenaticque against
me , who haue offred him all correspondency and curtisy , as much as I
could , EDMONDE,411.022.533

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when I thought he had ben very well pleased , one day he writt me a
letter about a particular matter of a french man , wherevnto <paren>
because <P_412> I wrote him an aunswer by the hand of one of my
Secretaries , who writes a better french hand then myself </paren> he
said to the messinger , I might haue vouchsafed to haue written w=th=
myne owne hand . EDMONDE,412.022.534

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This do I but by the way impart vnto you of his disposition ,
EDMONDE,412.022.535

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to returne back again where I leaft , notwithstanding I saw his
frowardness , yett I at our risying from counsaill , closed with him ,
EDMONDE,412.022.536

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayd vnto him merryly , that I hoped no misvnderstanding should
make any difference betweene vs , EDMONDE,412.022.537

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he should find me as ready to do his king service , as any body .
EDMONDE,412.022.538

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He replyed , saying surely that he vnderstood it , that I should name
his king , whervppon all the whole Counsaill affirmeth vpon their
honors <paren> and so vpon my soule I protest it </paren> that I never
named him . EDMONDE,412.022.539

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herevpon the Counsaill broke of , EDMONDE,412.022.540

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thought to haue heard no more of it . EDMONDE,412.022.541

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But w=th=in few dayes he sent to haue Audience , EDMONDE,412.022.542

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had it , at w=ch= tyme w=th= such a pride ! and extraordinary
gesture ! he made his complaint of me , as you would haue smiled , to
haue seene and heard him ; Wherevpon the Queene calling me to her ,
afore him , and requiring him , to chardge me , I was dryuen to my
Apology , w=ch= was shortly thus , EDMONDE,412.022.543

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I tould her Ma=ty= , that seing I was charged to haue forgotten my
duety to her , in vsing any vnreverend speache of the king whome she
held so deere , It was yet a contentement to me , that I might speake
afore her , so iust a Judge , and in his owne hearing , together w=th=
all her Counsaill who heard euery word , that had passed me ,
EDMONDE,412.022.544

AUTHOR:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
LETTER:EDMONDE_022:E2:1599:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I desired the Embassadour to consider that I was not so very an Infant
{ED:THE_LETTER_ENDS_HERE} EDMONDE,412.022.545

<Q_EDM_C_1599_T_TEDMONDES> <L_EDMONDE_023> <A_THOMAS_EDMONDES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1564?> <R_ROBERT_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1563?>

<P_412>

{ED:CLVII._THOMAS_EDMONDES_TO_ROBERT_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
It maie please yor honor I receiued yor honor letters , the 29=th= of
the last moneth , EDMONDE,412.023.546

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but before , the same morning earlie , here arryued a <P_413> Currier
from the ffrench Ambr wth the relation of the dispute wch passed wth
him . EDMONDE,413.023.547

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
It fell oute that the Kinge went that daie to ffountainebleau to goe a
hunting , EDMONDE,413.023.548

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and being dep~ted before I receiued my letters , it hindred my p~sent
speaking wth himself EDMONDE,413.023.549

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I did therefore wth as much speede as {with} I could make a succint
extract in frenche of the p~gresse of that matter , as yor honor
instructed me by yor letter EDMONDE,413.023.550

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and translated also her maties letter , EDMONDE,413.023.551

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And repayred to Monsr de Villeroy , EDMONDE,413.023.552

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and tould him that I doubted not , he was aduertised that there had
passed of late some contestations in conference , betweene her maties
Counsell and the Kinges Ambr wch afterwardes were followed to further
sharpenes , EDMONDE,413.023.553

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And because her matie doth suspect that as the said Ambr. was
exorbitant in his passion , & p~emptorie Carriage , so that it is verie
likelie that he maie make as p~tiall reportes , that her matie had
comanded me to geiue the K. a true accompt of that wch fell out ,
praying him not to belieue others inforcements to the p~iudice of the
trueth , and that he shall fynd that those that stryue themselfes by
such extreame dilligences doe him greatest deseruices and thereuppon
acquaynted him wth the whole course of the Conference wth the Ambr. ,
and his strange demeanor . EDMONDE,413.023.554

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Monsr de Villeroy answeared me , that Monsr de Boissises letters made a
verie different report , That insteade of receiuing satisfaction in the
matters of iustice wch he p~pounded , he was answeared wth iniuries ,
and the Kinges honor verie deepelie Charged , as wourse could not be
sayd of him . EDMONDE,413.023.555

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He sayd that the King hath cause to hould himself greatly wronged by
such p~ceading that being soe longe since the said Ambr. was sent
thither , exp~slie to p~cure some order in those matters of iustice ,
he can as yett receiue noe manner of satisfaction , but the complayntes
daylie encreasing , and that we would onlie referre them for p~uision ,
to the renewing of the former treaties , wch are of noe force against
the p~sent great abuses wch are comitted , requyring sharper remedies ,
but rather serue onlie to coulor iniustices . EDMONDE,413.023.556

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And because the said Ambr did instant a better reason , and would not
paie himself wth incertainties , to leaue thinges to be still subiect
to disorder that we grewe to rep~ches being first tould the Ambr. that
all p~mises had been obserued towardes the King in England , but that
they had kept none wth her matie , and in expresse termes , the King
hauing ben charged by yor honor to haue fayled in oathes wch he had
made , laying his hand on the Sacrament , wch he sayd were wourdes of
great <P_414> offence . That the K. hath often borne wth her maties
chollors , for the respect wch he beareth unto her , but that these
p~seuerances are insupportable . EDMONDE,414.023.557

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I tould him that if he would whollie belieue the passionatt reportes of
the Ambr. , and geiue noe Creditt to the testimonie of the whole boddie
of her maties Counsell who had witnessed howe thinges passed in the
said Conference , according to the relation wch I had made to him
thereof , that then it was bootelesse to insist uppon further arguying
the same , EDMONDE,414.023.558

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but if he would understand the matter aright he should fynd that the
offence was first geiuen by the Ambr , beginning first wth my lord
Admyrall and afterwardes in speaches wth yor honor , so deepelie taxing
her maties honor , as you were bound to answer his speaches uppon such
p~vocation . EDMONDE,414.023.559

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
But that he might the better judge howe much the sayd Ambr fayled in
that report wch he made of those wourdes wch he sayd yor honor used of
the Kinge , I tould him that besides that it was attested the King was
neuer named , there is nothing more apparent then that our englishe
phrase doth beare no such wourdes as laying the hand on the Sacrament
<paren> wch Monsr de Villeroy sounded to me to be so highe wourdes of
offence </paren> but that if yor honor did use that wourd of Sacrament
, to import the breaking of oathes and p~mises , that it was according
to the sence of the lattyn wourd Sacramentum , but that other use of
swearing by the Sacrement , we had not , and therefore no fitt phrase
for it , as there was also noe cause to haue so charged the Kinge , if
it had alluded to him , considering that his oath was not taken in that
manner . EDMONDE,414.023.560

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And as therefore it plainlie appeared that the Ambr fayled out of the
abundance of his passion and p~emptorienes , so also no lesse in the
misinterp~tation of yor honors wourdes . EDMONDE,414.023.561

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He sayd moreouer that her matie had likewise taxed the Ambr. to haue
ben of the league , EDMONDE,414.023.562

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but I disproued also the said enfourmation , EDMONDE,414.023.563

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and tould him that both before , and after the Conference , the Ambr.
had ben kindlie used , and treated , to auoyd that the arguyinges
should not come to such extremitie , but that therein and in other
p~ticuler actions he sheweth to be a spyritt that loueth rather
contention , and to Cavyll , then to treate wth freedome wch sort of
negotiating wth such animositie is verie disagreable to her matie and
her mynisters . EDMONDE,414.023.564

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He answeared me that the Ambr. had spetiall charge from the Kinge to
make so expresse instance as he did in the matters of dep~dacion , and
so also that he had been punisheable , if he had not complayned of so
great a wronge donne to the King , in <P_415> his honor ,
EDMONDE,415.023.565

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but for that he would make it appeare that he did not desier to
agravatt anie heates betweene her matie and the Kinge , he sayd he
would faythfullie employe himself to p~suade the K. to suppresse this
accydent , and to belieue that yor honors wourdes were misunderstoode
as I enfourmed him , p~testing that he would be so sorie to see anie
breache of affection betweene her matie and the King , as he would not
onlie bringe all the water he could , to the quenching of anie such
fyre , but also his verie Cloathes from his backe , to use his owne
wourdes , EDMONDE,415.023.566

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And therefore he coniured me earnestlie that I should be spetiallie
carefull not to acquaynt anie p~son whatsoeuer wth the matter as he
vowed unto me that noe creature lyuing should haue knowledge of it from
him , but the King himself , for that being dyuulged that there were
but too manie that would seeke to exasperatt the King and that I should
trust him that he would dispose the K. 's mynd that it should not passe
to anie further misunderstandinges assuring himself that the K. would
belieue his Counsell therein , EDMONDE,415.023.567

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And so likewise he prayed , that if the Ambr. haue in anie thinge
forgotten himself that her matie $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} pleased to
passe it ouer as the King was contented to doe the like towardes her
last Ambr. here . EDMONDE,415.023.568

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He confessed unto me that the said Ambrs fashon of formall p~ceading is
verie distasting whereof that he did admonishe him before his dep~ture
, and since by letters , EDMONDE,415.023.569

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but being otherwise of verie good integritie , and carefull to serue
well . EDMONDE,415.023.570

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I tould him that I intended to repaire to the K. to acquaynte him wth
these letters wch I had receiued unlesse he should otherwise counsell
me , EDMONDE,415.023.571

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
he answeared me that he would not wishe me so to doe , for that my
going to the K. would geiue an expectacion to those about him that some
extraordinarie occasion did bring me thither , EDMONDE,415.023.572

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
that might breede a curiositie to enquyre of the cause thereof , wch it
were fittest to auoyde , and the rather in respect that the King was
there accompanyed wth the Prynce of lorrayne and his brother Monsr de
vaudemont : EDMONDE,415.023.573

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
howebeitt he sayd that he would dispatche in dilligence to the King to
knowe his pleasure whether he would that I should come to him , or
attende his retourne , and that I should receiue his answer wthin twoe
daies . EDMONDE,415.023.574

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I could not refuse to followe his opynion EDMONDE,415.023.575

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and I retourned yesterdaie to him to know the Kinges answeare
EDMONDE,415.023.576

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and he tould me , that the King liketh best that I should staie his
coming hither , wch $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} wthin twoe or three daies .
EDMONDE,415.023.577

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
In my first conference wth him , but more in my last , we had large
speache of the matters of dep~dacion , EDMONDE,415.023.578

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and he tould me that seing <P_416> it is question to burye thinges past
, that it importeth to settle a good order , to thende to retourne no
more to the like Contestations and disputes , insisting therefore
earnestlie for the establishing of a good iustice touching those
marrityne causes wch would remoue all difficulties ,
EDMONDE,416.023.579

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and spetially he complayned that there was no entier satisfaction
geiuen touching the matter of the Cautions , and making a good
ellection of p~sons to iudge causes defynitiuelie . EDMONDE,416.023.580

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I answeared him that her matie had yealded to as much as was fitt for
her in anie reason to doe , yea , & enlarged herself beyond the
conditions of all former treaties , as appeared by the answeares made
to the Ambrs p~positions , wch we conferred together ,
EDMONDE,416.023.581

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but to bynd the Townes as was requyred to answear for all p~ticuler
misdemeanors , that it is dyrectlie against the forme of our lawes ,
and that it ought to suffice them that such cautions are taken in all
the Portes by the viceadmyralls , and their deputies , and that the
renewing of that charge to the said officers if it were necessarie ,
would geiue newe force thereunto . EDMONDE,416.023.582

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And touching the other poyntes , that her matie did also assent to such
a forme of iustice as they desired of selected p~sons , and as
appeareth by her answer offreth to encrease the nombre of them if it be
needfull , thoughe being a thinge wch hath ben neuer before practised .
EDMONDE,416.023.583

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And to shewe that her matie was willinge both to gratifye the Kinge ,
and to trust him in anie thing that concerneth her , that there $can
$not {TEXT:cannott} be a greater assurance thereof then that her matie
is content to trust onlie in the Kinges honor & wourd that he will not
suffer anie Corne to be transported into Spayne , if it shall appeare
that they are making anie p~parations by sea against her matie , where
contrarewise it was insisted by his Ambr to haue Caution also against
disorders p~tended to be Comitted by her maties owne shippes , wch was
a strange inforcement , And that her matie hath much more reason to
doubt that under this libertie allowed to the Kinges subiectes to trade
freelie into Spayne , they will also transport munition thither .
EDMONDE,416.023.584

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He sayd to me that the King was to acknowledge great thancke fullnes
unto her matie , in that she was pleased to repose so great a
Confidence in him , wch he will neuer abuse , but though in respect of
his necessitie he was content to geiue a tolleration to transport Corne
into Spayne , yett that in anie occasion of being of p~iudice to her
matie that he will staie the same , and that as the King is assured
that the Spanyard $can $not {TEXT:cannott} make anie p~parations this
yeare against her matie but onlie for defence , so that he $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} carefull to aduertise her matie from <P_417> tyme to tyme
, when he shall understand that the Spanyardes intend anie such
p~parations . EDMONDE,417.023.585

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And to p~uyde that the said librtie shall not serue for a Cullor to
transport munition , that the K. shall by publicke declaration exp~slie
forbidd the carrying of anie such p~uisions though not in spetiall
wourdes into Spayne but in generall termes . EDMONDE,417.023.586

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And thoughe there were complaintes of disorders comitted by her maties
owne Shippes , yett that he would counsell the King also to trust in
her maties honor for the refourmation thereof And to accomodate
likewise the other twoe poyntes , EDMONDE,417.023.587

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
he sayd that the Kinge might content himself wth the Cautions to be
taken by the viceadmyralls , and their deputies in the portes , so as
it might be therewth p~vyded , that if it doe fall out , that they doe
not take sufficient Cautions , that then they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
answearable to satisfie the p~ties damnified because onlie their
remisenes , or partiallties doe make such defaultes .
EDMONDE,417.023.588

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
lastlie that her matie being pleased to appoynt a convenient nombr of
selected p~sons to iudge defynytuelie those marityme causes <paren> as
the K. would appoynte the like iudges here </paren> that the officers
of the Admyraltie might not be spetiallie aucthorised to iudge alone
wthout the others , as it is sayd her maties Comission doth importe .
EDMONDE,417.023.589

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
I tould him that it is used when a comission is dyrrected to manie , to
geiue power to a convenient nombr of them to executt the full
aucthoritie , because it is supposed they $can $not {TEXT:cannott}
alwaies assemble all , to thende to accellerratt the expedition of
thinges , and therefore that , that restriction maie rather be hurtfull
then good . EDMONDE,417.023.590

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
He alleaged other considerations of Corruption EDMONDE,417.023.591

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and sayd that the Ambr. should haue charge to insist uppon these
poyntes to quyett these differences , EDMONDE,417.023.592

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and because this is the substance of as much as I can or shall
negociatt wth the K. and yor honor knowing that the K. is wholly
counselled and guyded by this man , I thought good to send yor honor
this report in dilligence in the meane tyme till I can speake wth the
K. , EDMONDE,417.023.593

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and then yor honor , shall be aduertised of that wch shall further
occurre . EDMONDE,417.023.594

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
The States haue nowe sent hither a commissarie wth monie for the
levying of the men wch the K. hath lycensed to passe for their seruice
, EDMONDE,417.023.595

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and Monsr de la Noue is alreadie dep~ted to geiue order for the
embarquing of the said men , out of seuerall portes .
EDMONDE,417.023.596

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
It is aduertised that the K. of Spayne is dep~ted into Arragon to hould
the Assemblie of the States there , and to drawe a contribution of
monie , and afterwardes , that it is nowe determyned to sollempnize his
<P_418> marriage at Vallence . EDMONDE,418.023.597

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
The Queene his wief is also to embarque at Genoa nowe in this moneth of
Februarie . EDMONDE,418.023.598

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Yesterdaie the Capuschin was app~hended attyred in the habitt of a
Spanish souldier , of whom the Duke of lorrayne gaue aduertisement of
hauing undertaken to kill the Kinge , EDMONDE,418.023.599

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and he hath confessed the intent , and to haue ben p~suaded thereunto
by a Jesuitt in lorrayne . EDMONDE,418.023.600

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
Here fell out also yesterdaie a great quarrell uppon a weake ground
betweene the Prynce Jenville second brother to the Duke of Guise and
the Barron of Termes brother to Monsr le Grand , into the wch Monsr de
Maynes eldest sonne wth the Counte of Auuergne did verie farre engage
themselfes wth the Prynce Jenville , to draw Monsr le Grand into the
field to second his brother , as it is sayd uppon some former grudge .
EDMONDE,418.023.601

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
There hath ben straight order taken to keepe them from meetinge because
ther begunne to be great banding on both sides , EDMONDE,418.023.602

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
and the first night the Duke of Bouillon laye in Monsr le Grands Chambr
to hinder him from styrring out of his lodginge , EDMONDE,418.023.603

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
but the Prynce Jenville hath stollen out of the Towne to auoyd to come
to anie reconcylliation by the Kinges Commandement .
EDMONDE,418.023.604

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
It is thought this matter will hasten the K 's retourne hither
EDMONDE,418.023.605

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
And so I most humbly take my leaue ffrom Paris the second of Februarie
<font> 1598 </font> . EDMONDE,418.023.606

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
yor honors most humble Tho: Edmondes . EDMONDE,418.023.607

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
That wch past in conference betweene Monsr Villeroy and him concerning
the ffr: Amb=r=. complaint . EDMONDE,418.023.608

AUTHOR:THOMAS_EDMONDES:MALE:_:1564?:35?
RECIPIENT:ROBERT_CECIL:MALE:_:1563?:36?
LETTER:EDMONDE_023:E2:1599:COPY:OTHER
To the right honorable S=r= Robert Cecyll knight Principall Secretarie
to the Queenes Matie and chancelor of the Duchie of lancaster .
EDMONDE,418.023.609
