<B_FITZHER>

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_001> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_4>

{ED:I._[FITZHERBERT]_TO_CHAMBERLANE_[BIRKHEAD],_18_MAY_1608. }

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend Syr . I have receaved your letter of the 14 of March ,
FITZHER,4.001.1

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and rest much comforted to see your good resolution and courage in gods
cause , which I hope his devyne majesty will encrease in you , with
good successe to your endevours , to repayre the late wracks that his
cause hath susteyned by the weaknes of your predecessour .
FITZHER,4.001.2

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have read the copy of your letter FITZHER,4.001.3

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lyke it singularly well . FITZHER,4.001.4

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I wold wish you hereafter <paren> whether you wryte to the same
party or any other of lyke quality </paren> to be as breef as the <P_5>
matter will geve you leave , and thys especially yf you wryte to Paul ,
FITZHER,5.001.5

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for other ways your letters may be remitted to others to be read and
related , and not read by the parties theym selves , which wold hinder
the good effectes that otherways may be expected ; FITZHER,5.001.6

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and of thys we have so much experience here , that I think yt important
to be known and considered of you . FITZHER,5.001.7

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The party to whom you wrote your latin letter ys alreddy departed hence
for all thys sommer , FITZHER,5.001.8

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore hereafter your letters must be to others , especially to
him , whose place he supplyed <paren> who is now here himself </paren>
or to some such as he shall appoynt ; whereof you $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} advertised hereafter ; FITZHER,5.001.9

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he will no dout appoynt some to supply for him when he goeth hence
which I think he will do ere thys sommer passe . FITZHER,5.001.10

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane tyme you may do well to send your letters without
superscription , which may be added here according to the party that
shall occupy the place ; FITZHER,5.001.11

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the matter and style may always serve indifferently for any of that
quality as you know . FITZHER,5.001.12

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
having understood that your old and best patron hath conceyved somewhat
hardly of f. p. for not delivering certayn letters of hys sent some
yeres agoe or thereabout to P. I can do no <P_6> lesse then testify
unto you , what I know thereof which I wold <P_7> wryte to your patron
him selfe , yf I were as well knowen unto him , as I was to hys
grandfather , to whom both I and my father and uncle were exceedingly
bound for hys great favour and affection in which respect and dyvers
others needles to relate I have ever greatly honored your patron and
cordially loved him . FITZHER,6.001.13

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The truth ys that f. p. receaving the foresayd letters , and
considering the danger of those tymes , and dyvers other inconveniences
concurring consulted with some few confident frendes <paren> of whom my
self was one </paren> whether it were more convenient to deliver the
letters theym selves , or to suggest and represent the effect thereof ,
to the party to whom they were written , and the same to be done in
your patrons name , and as by particular commission from him ,
FITZHER,6.001.14

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it seeming to us that the latter wold be the most secure and safe
way for your patron <paren> in respect of some examples we had before
seene of important matters published by the negligence of such as had
the keeping of letters and papers of that quality </paren> we presumed
so farre of your patrons allowance , <paren> pretending nothing on our
parts , but his satisfaction and security and gods glory and service
</paren> that we resolved to open the letters and to represent the
contents in hys name , which I assure you was done effectually and with
as ample a relation of your patrons great worth and merits , as he him
self could have wished , though the party to whom the same was
suggested , was at that tyme so exceedingly troubled and alienated from
hearing of those or any other of our affayres by the accidents which
then hapned , to your patron him self as well as to dyvers others , as
you know , that the resolution thereof could not be prosecuted , and
much lesse procured , FITZHER,6.001.15

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so the matter being , as fully and sufficiently intimated as could
be wished , was let fall perforce ; FITZHER,6.001.16

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and one reason amongst others , which moved us at that tyme rather to
deliver the effect of the letters then the letters theym selves was the
great length of theym , whereby we assured our selves that the party
wold not read theym , but remit theym to be related to him by others ,
who wold not perhaps do it so effectually , as we desyred .
FITZHER,6.001.17

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this ys the truth FITZHER,6.001.18

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if your patron conceave other ways he ys much deceaved ,
FITZHER,6.001.19

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and doth great wrong to us hys servants here , and especially to f. p.
in whom I have ever seene so much love and affection towards him , and
such endevour in all oportunityes to advance hys favour and reputation
, that I must needs say he deserveth a farre better construction of hys
action herein , then as I understand , your patron maketh .
FITZHER,6.001.20

<P_8>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for God ys our witnes <paren> I may boldly say it for my self no leses
then for the rest that delt in that matter </paren> we had no other
desynment or meaning in the world , then gods service with your patrons
better satisfaction , though it may be we presumed too farre of the
confidence we thought he reposed in us and consequently of hys
appreciation of what we should think most fit to be donne , the
condition of this place , that tyme and the matter it self , being
considered ; FITZHER,8.001.21

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
howsoever it ys , yf your patron take it not well , I may boldly say ,
and so protest unto you that I think , that there was never matter
better meant on our parts , nor more mistaken by him or any other ,
FITZHER,8.001.22

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to thys effect I wold have written unto him my self , yf he had
once knowen me , or that I had thought he wold have taken it for
presumption in me , being unacquaynted with him ; FITZHER,8.001.23

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I have thought good to signify thus much to you , and to
remit it to your wisdom , to impart it to him , as farre as you shall
think convenient , with most humble and affectionat offer of my service
. FITZHER,8.001.24

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so thys being for no other at thys tyme I take my leave
recommending you to gods holly protection . FITZHER,8.001.25

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from my old residence the 18 of May Yours as my owne T. Swinnerton .
FITZHER,8.001.26

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If you impart thys to your patron I should be very glad to heare from
you how he resteth satisfied . FITZHER,8.001.27

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_001:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To Mr Chamberlane G. B. A . FITZHER,8.001.28

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_002> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_13>

{ED:III._FITZHERBERT_TO_BIRKHEAD,_13_JUNE_1608.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend , I have received yours of the 24 of Aprill with the
enclosed for C. Buff . who is still out of the towne , and will be all
this sommer , FITZHER,13.002.29

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I must send him always such things as come from you for
him , as I did your former , which he hath very gratfully received ,
and ys exceeding glad of your good proceedings , as he hath signified .
FITZHER,13.002.30

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am very sorry to see that you have so little assistance , as may
appeare , by your letters and coppyes , written all with your owne hand
, wherein you must needs seeke some helpe to ease you of your burden .
FITZHER,13.002.31

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I do lyke notably well the coppy of your admonition , which can not be
ill taken of any that hath the spirit of unity , and obedience to the
supreme pastor , seeing it ys evident that you have donne no more
therein then he hath expressly commanded and ordayned .
FITZHER,13.002.32

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The facultyes which you requyre , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} procured
with all possible speede , FITZHER,13.002.33

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had benne ere this , but that the protector went out of towne upon
sundayes , for some dayes , and ys not yet returned ; FITZHER,13.002.34

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he ys wont to make greate difficulty in cases of subdelegation ,
douting how farre his power extendeth there in , FITZHER,13.002.35

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I thinke we must have recourse to the hyghest , where of
you shall heare more at my next oportunity . FITZHER,13.002.36

<P_14>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whereas you signify the greate desyre of many to have byshops , and
have also written about it to C. Buffalo , I do assure you , there hath
benne as much donne in that matter as hath benne possible ,
FITZHER,14.002.37

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for besydes the former endevours of F. Parsons some yeres agoe in pope
Clements tyme , <paren> when the Archpriest was first made </paren>
there was a new onset geven of late by Mr Sweete , upon his returne
from England , with the consent and furderance of fa: Parsons , and all
his frends here , FITZHER,14.002.38

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the matter I assure you , was solicited effectually with all the
Cardinals of the inquisition , to whome it was referred ,
FITZHER,14.002.39

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet notwithstanding , in conclusion his hollynes , and they
resolved to differre for the present the making of bishops , and to
make a new Archpriest upon the fall of the other , which came to be
understood heere whyle that matter of byshops was prosecuted ,
FITZHER,14.002.40

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet nevertheles I have <P_15> not understood that his hollynes hath
rejected , or that he dislyketh that mocion , but that he only
differreth it for some tyme , <P_16> fearing that yt would exasperat
much more , then the course he hath taken , FITZHER,15.002.41

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neyther have all the reasons geven to the contrary suffyced to alter
his opinion FITZHER,15.002.42

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I assure you we have pacience perforce ,
FITZHER,15.002.43

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we can not force his will , FITZHER,15.002.44

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neyther were it convenient that we shuld doe it , though we could ,
seeing we are to presume that he hath more assistance from above , then
we canne attribut to ourselves . FITZHER,15.002.45

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles upon your new mocion I have consulted the matter with fa:
Pars. FITZHER,15.002.46

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he persisting in his former opinion of the conveniency thereof ,
and also in his desyre to procure all the satisfaction that may be to
your brethren with you , hath promised his assistance to effect the
same , FITZHER,15.002.47

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to that end we meane to try whether we can procure order from his
hollynes to you , to take the opinions of your assistants , and your
other brethren there concerning the persons that may be fit amongst
them for that tytle , and charge , which we thinke to be the lykelyest
way to geve satisfaction to all there with you , FITZHER,15.002.48

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we have the better hope to obtayne it , because his hollynes had
alreddy taken such a resolution upon the former sute that was made here
, before the Archpriests fall , FITZHER,15.002.49

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I take yt , that some such letter , was written to him though
perhaps by reason of his apprehension and fall presently after , it
could not be delivered , or at least have any effect , which I thinke
did partly move his hollynes to ordayne a new Archpriest for the
present , untill he might be furder satisfyed , concerning fit subjects
amongst you for the Episcopal charge , hoping also that in the meane
tyme the weather would grow more calme in England , and some such
occasions happe , that yt might be donne with lesse danger of
molestation of the Catholykes which ys that which his hollynes seemeth
most to respect in this matter , Though yf I shall tell you my owne
opinion <paren> which I <P_17> have alwayse signifyed when occasion
hath requyred </paren> I hold it more convenient <paren> seeing it must
needs be donne sooner , or later </paren> to doe it when the
persecution ys at the worst , then in a calme , FITZHER,17.002.50

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yt ys evident ynough , that it woold rayse a greate persecution ,
though there were none , which wold make the Catholykes , at least all
the weaker sort , greatly mislyke the institution of byshops , where as
now in the extremity , yt could make things no worse then they are
alreddy , FITZHER,17.002.51

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore truly my opinion ys , <paren> as I have sayd </paren>
that it were not a misse , to doe it at this present with a condicion ,
nevertheles , which I once told to his hollynes , when it {TEXT:it}
{ED:SIC} pleased him to aske me my opinion therein , that whosoever
shuld be made bishops for england , shuld be bound to residence , I
meane , to remayne within the country , though it cost him his life ,
FITZHER,17.002.52

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and of that mynd shall I be ever , feareing that otherwayse some
ambitious humours may procure to have the dignity and after upon
pretence of daungers <paren> which can never want during these tymes of
heresy </paren> eyther goe up and doune other cuntreys begging , or
become suffragans to other byshops abroad , of both of which poynts we
have seen sufficient experience in the yrish byshops FITZHER,17.002.53

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and may well feare the lyke in our cuntry , yf good order be not taken
, FITZHER,17.002.54

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this consideration his hollynes seemed to me to well to lyke of ,
which I am bold to signify unto you in confidence , Though whether he
will put it in practyse , I know not , FITZHER,17.002.55

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the truth ys that in these things concerning our ecclesiasticall
affayres , he will not stand eyther to his owne opinion , or to the
conceyt of any privat man , but treateth and resolveth all things with
the Cardinals of the inquisition , who use to sift matters to the
bottome , and being many as they are , all very wyse , and of different
humours , resolve , as it may $wel $be {TEXT:welbe} thought , without
passion , or particular affection to any man or matter ,
FITZHER,17.002.56

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so was the resolution lately taken to make a new Archpriest for the
tyme , in that manner that {in}_P yt hath benne donne ,
FITZHER,17.002.57

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore yf any goe about to contradict it , they are lyke to have
a cold sute ; FITZHER,17.002.58

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
our lord have you in his holly protection , FITZHER,17.002.59

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from my old residence the 13 of June . FITZHER,17.002.60

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_002:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yours as my owne T. F . FITZHER,17.002.61

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_003> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_19>

{ED:V._FITZHERBERT_TO_BIRKHEAD,_27_JULY_1608.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have receaved yours of the 6 of June with the enclosed one to Car.
Buf. from your self , and one from D. Bavan to the protector , and
another from D. Smith to hys holynes , FITZHER,19.003.62

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope that you have receaved synce you wrote yours , three of myne
, one of the 24 of May or thereabouts , and one other of the 13 of June
and the 3=d= of the 21 of the same , in which three letters I wrote
amply unto you concerning the two poynts , wherein you ar so much
pressed there , and you also urge in your letters , to wit concerning
bishops , and two procurators to be sent hither from our clergy ;
FITZHER,19.003.63

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I dout not but that some resolution $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} taken
shortly in the first poynt FITZHER,19.003.64

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for <paren> as I understand </paren> the same ys seriously handled in
the inquisition ; FITZHER,19.003.65

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I verily think that some thing will be sent you ere it be
long from hence , to be debated and consulted there by you and our
brethren ; in which respect I do not see that it ys to any purpose to
urge the second poynt until the former be concluded ; FITZHER,19.003.66

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for satisfaction being geven in the matter of bishops , the other poynt
of agents of the clergy , will requyre other considerations ,
FITZHER,19.003.67

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and must be referred to the bishops them selves to determin , as well
concerning the number of theyr agents , as theyr persons , which are
not lyke to be alyke gratefull to every one of the bishops , who
perhaps will chose every one hys owne agent ; FITZHER,19.003.68

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore in my opinion you may with great reason desyre those
which urge these two poynts so much , to expect the resolution of the
first <paren> seeing it ys promised with speed </paren> before they
prosecut the latter , which in no sure and firme order can be taken now
, yf the first be granted . FITZHER,19.003.69

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheless , the proposition you make in theyr name for agents , both
hath ben alreddy and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} furder intimated to hys
hollynes , as well to satisfy your earnest desyres therein , as also
<P_20> to the end hys hollynes may fully know the state of things there
, <paren> as he desyreth </paren> FITZHER,20.003.70

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to that purpose I do take out the substance of your letter to me ,
as also of that other to Card. Buffalo , according to the copy you send
, FITZHER,20.003.71

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to-morrow , by gods grace , it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} presented
to hys hollynes , FITZHER,20.003.72

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys I will do the rather because Card. Buff. ys out of the towne ,
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} until october at the soonest , and neyther
can nor will , as he hath signifyed , furder deale in our affayres ,
especially our protector being here , as he now ys , who also , when he
goeth hence , ys lyke to constitut another representative , by reason
as well as of the other good Cardinals great infirmity of the gout
<paren> which almost wholly hindereth hys negotiation </paren> , as
also by reason of hys long absence . FITZHER,20.003.73

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therefore , as I remember , I advysed you in my former letters ,
that you shuld wryte no more to Card. Buffalo , but wryte your letters
so indifferently to all of hys quality that I may here make the
superscripsion eyther to the protector him self , yf he be here , or
els to any other that shall supply hys place , FITZHER,20.003.74

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys I wold wish you henceforth to observe , FITZHER,20.003.75

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so no labour nor tyme $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} lost , as there hath
ben much losse of both by sending to Card. Buffalo in this his long
absence . FITZHER,20.003.76

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am very glad to have seen the letter of my old and deare frend Mr d.
Bavan , wherein he showeth great wisdome , vertu , and frendship to you
; FITZHER,20.003.77

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truly I know no one man in our clergy upon whose opinion I wold
sooner rely , then upon his , in any matters whatsoever , and
particulerly in those poynts which he toucheth , FITZHER,20.003.78

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for the matter of bishops , we find here by many letters and
relations from those parts , that he only ys not of the opinion which
he signifyeth , but very many other wyse men , who have sent hither
theyr reasons to the same purpose ; FITZHER,20.003.79

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore yf the matter be comitted to be debated amongst you there
, I dout not , but you will fynd great diversity of opinions .
FITZHER,20.003.80

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sorry that doctor Smiths letter cometh sealed , and without any
coppy , especially seeing that yourself knoweth not the contents ,
FITZHER,20.003.81

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I make great dout how yt shall be delivered , by reason that the
secretaries are wont to make great difficulty to deliver private mens
letters to his hollynes except they know the contents ;
FITZHER,20.003.82

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to deliver yt with my owne hands to hys hollyness , not knowing
what yt conteyneth , I wold be loth , though yt were for my owne
brother ; FITZHER,20.003.83

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheless for thys once I will see what may be donne to deliver yt
by some secretary ; FITZHER,20.003.84

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I pray you hereafter to send no mans letter to me especially for
his hollines except such as you at least have seen , and will answere
<P_21> for the contents , whereby you shall also prevent great
inconveniences , to wit not to send litteras Bellerophontis ; I mean
letters to your owne prejudice , which you may otherways haply do
sometymes , as men ar humored in these dayes , though I hope no such
dout can justly be made of d. Smith , in respect of the frendship which
yt seemeth ys betwixt you . FITZHER,21.003.85

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Though I have written amply unto you concerning the earnest mocion made
unto you about agents for the seculer priests , yet because you think
it very necessary as you signify , for the making of peace and unity ,
I would wish you to consider who and how many they are that so much
urge the same , FITZHER,21.003.86

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yf they be only of the appellants as I take them to be , and that
they will have those agents chosen out of theyr number , as by all
lykelyhood they wold , there will follow two great inconveniences ,
FITZHER,21.003.87

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the one ys , that you shall greatly autoryse and strengthen theyr
faction to your owne prejudice , seeing you shall acknowledge them
still to be a body , as though theyr appeal was still in force , which
ys fallen to the ground with the old Archpriest , FITZHER,21.003.88

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore now to suffer theym to assygne an agent eyther for theym
selves or for the whole clergy , were no other but to nourish them in
theyr former humour of opposition , and to geve theym meanes by theyr
agents to undermyne you and your autority which they have so much
ympugned in your predecessor ; FITZHER,21.003.89

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The other inconvenience wold be <paren> as I think I signified unto you
in some of my former letters </paren> that no one of that body <paren>
who shall still hold correspondence and intrinsical amity with the rest
</paren> will seeme to the greater and better part of english
catholykes here , to deserve credit in this court , by reason that
dyvers of that number and name of appellants , have had , <paren> as
some also still have </paren> intelligence with the heretykes , in so
much that eyther by the agents theym selves , or els by theyr adherents
and frends all our affayres in thys court , wold be discovered to the
enemy no lesse , FITZHER,21.003.90

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
then we see by experience , they ar dayly in England ;
FITZHER,21.003.91

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truly thys I dare boldly say unto you , that the greatest part of
english Catholykes here , and in all Italy wold hold those agents so
suspected , that they wold not trust them in any thing , yea and
perhaps oppose theymselves to theyr admission here , FITZHER,21.003.92

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as for my part I think in conscience we are bound to doe for the good
of the cause . FITZHER,21.003.93

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thys I say in case the agents shuld be chosen eyther one or more by the
appellants only , or out of theyr body . FITZHER,21.003.94

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yf the choyse shuld be made by the whole clergy , of some quiet men
that had not ben of the number of the appellants , me thinks you are to
consider whose agents they are to be accounted , whether yours or
agents for the clergy ; FITZHER,21.003.95

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf yours I see no reason which may justly move you , to prejudice your
self and your autority so much as to have your agents appoynted by your
owne subjects , whereas it were fit that <P_22> they shuld be of the
most confydent frends you have , and depending only on your self ,
FITZHER,22.003.96

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} counted agents for the whole
clergy , you shall acknowledge thereby , that your clergy is a body
devyded from you , theyr head , and not depending on you ,
FITZHER,22.003.97

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yea , and as I signified before , you shall geve them both courrage and
autority to attempt any thing agaynst you ; FITZHER,22.003.98

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and verily I think that the lyke president hath not ben seene , and
that no superiour eyther spiritual or temporal would suffer it .
FITZHER,22.003.99

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therefore that which you may well do in thys case to content them
in my opinion is to make choyse your self of some quiet man and
confident frend of yours , to be your agent here , agaynst whom the
appellants can take no just exception FITZHER,22.003.100

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for with such , we , who are your frends here , will be also very glad
to concurre , as occasion shall serve and no man more willing then my
self whensoever you $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} otherways provyded .
FITZHER,22.003.101

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet one thing more I wold wish you and theym to consider , which ys
how your or theyr agents $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} mentayned here ,
FITZHER,22.003.102

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yf you or they expect that hys hollynes shall geve theym allowance
, I verily think you will be deceaved , whereof I could yeld you many
reasons , and some of theym grounded upon dayly experience yf it were
needfull ; FITZHER,22.003.103

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thus much I have thought good to add to my former letters , though
I think I have also touched the most of thys before ;
FITZHER,22.003.104

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but in thes cases I hold it better to say a great deale more then needs
then any thing to litle , FITZHER,22.003.105

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for abundans cautela non nocet ; FITZHER,22.003.106

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so being very weary with wryting I take my leave recommending you
to gods holly protection . FITZHER,22.003.107

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thys 27 of Juli FITZHER,22.003.108

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_003:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yours as my owne F . FITZHER,22.003.109

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_004> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_28>

{ED:VIII._SWINNERTON_[FITZHERBERT]_TO_BIRKHEAD,_23_AUGUST_1608.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend , Yours of the 21 of June , with the enclosed , which
were for his hollynes , and the other for the protector , the thyrd for
Card. Buff. and the 4=th= a copy of a letter from M=r= Parker , to the
protector , as it seemeth , FITZHER,28.004.110

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the letter itself came not withall ; FITZHER,28.004.111

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
belyke it was forgotten . FITZHER,28.004.112

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have delivered the two letters for his hollynes , and the protector ,
FITZHER,28.004.113

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $for $as {TEXT:foras} much as you demaunded in that to his hollynes
, to know his resolution concerning the request made unto you by your
brethren to send procuratours , I do solicit to have answere from his
hollynes ; which I hope I shall have the next weeke , to send you by
the next post , though I was determined , as I wrote unto you in my
last , to solicit only the matter of bishops for the present , because
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} see , that any fyrme and certayne resolution
can be made concerning the other , <paren> at least for the election of
the persons , </paren> yf byshops be made . FITZHER,28.004.114

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but however it ys , seeing you urge it still , I will doe what I can to
procure you answere , though I must needs say , that the reason which
you add to the demaund , $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but disgust his
hollynes , for that it showeth a strange aversion in the demaunders ,
not from some , but from all religious men without exception , seeing
you <P_29> say that they will not have ullos religiosos immiscere se
etc . which must needs move his hollynes to reflect upon theyr small
inclynation to peace , though you perswade yourselfe that theyr
satisfaction in this , wold procure and furder it ; FITZHER,29.004.115

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to tell you truely my opinion , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} for my
owne part , expect that it can follow of the employment of men of that
humour in this place , where of I shall not neede to say any more in
this matter , because I have written unto you amply thereof in my
former ; FITZHER,29.004.116

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I will add , that my hope ys , that those which are of that
opinion , are not eyther-2 the greatest , or most important part of our
clergy , FITZHER,29.004.117

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for truely , to speake my conscience , it were a pittiful case , yf it
were soe ; FITZHER,29.004.118

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I wold wish you to consider how many they may be that
importune in this matter , and manner , <paren> I mean with such a
tooth agaynst religious men </paren> and to take heede , least to
content theym , you discontent a farre greater number , who I verely
think , wold be loth to be thought to be of that humour .
FITZHER,29.004.119

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whereas you write in this your last letter as in your former , that you
have confirmed M=r= Singleton in his Assistency , you shall understand
that he hath written unto me that it seemeth to him by letters , which
he had lately received from you , that you doe , as it were , discharge
him of it agayne , as having confirmed him agaynst the expresse words
of the facultyes sent you from hence , FITZHER,29.004.120

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore I have written unto him , that I verily think , he
mistaketh your letter , for that , although you have written at this
tyme of the difficulty which since your confirmation of him , hath
occurred unto you , and ben urged by others , yet nevertheles , you doe
not seeme to have revoked it , but doe rather signify the contrary .
FITZHER,29.004.121

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truely for ought I see in your facultyes , <paren> whereof we have
heere the coppye </paren> you have not transgressed theym , in
confirming him , but rather performed theym , seeing you are advysed
therein , to confirme those Assistants , that had behaved theym selves
well in that charge , FITZHER,29.004.122

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and although you have also power to choose ; and subrogat others in the
place of those that are dead , or absent , yet the meaning ys not , as
we take it heere , that eligere et subrogare should be understood in
one sense , but the fyrst to be applyed to the supply of those that are
dead , and the later to wit subrogare to be performed in the place of
the <P_30> absent or imprisoned , during only theyr absence , or
disability to discharge theyr office ; on which respect we advysed you
from hence at the first to confirme those two which were absent , and
to substitut some others for theym to execut theyr office there ,
untill theyr returne ; though it seemeth that M=r= Singleton being in
the place where he ys , may assist you greatly in many occasions that
may be offered to deale with the Nuncio for you , besyds that he may as
soone answere you by letter in any matter of importance , as he could
doe from Lankyshyre , or out of the north , and ys also in possibility
to returne to you , whensoever it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} needefull ;
FITZHER,30.004.123

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore yt wold seeme very hard that a man in his case and of his
parts , and merits shuld loose his office ; for which respect we were
heere of opinion that you shuld doe well to confirme him , and the
rather , for that he ys well knowne to his hollynes , since his last
being heere , and well esteemed of him , having had dyvers tymes since
, occasion to write to his hollynes of matters of importance , which
have occurred in those parts . and thus much touching him .
FITZHER,30.004.124

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I ame very glad to understand that your Patron ys so well satisfyed ,
concerning the matter that you write of , though I can not but greatly
mervel , that some learned men , as you insinuat , are so much
scandalized with the fact , that they wold rather suffer torment then
doe the lyke , where in truely you might have caused in me a great
scruple , <paren> for as much as concerneth me </paren> were it not
that I both know in my owne conscience , and also evidently see by your
letter that they ground their judgement upon a false foundation ,
supposing that the course of the busynes recommended by your patron was
stopped , which I assure you ys altogether mistaken , for that the
substance of his letter , and particulerly the poynt touching byshops ,
was sett downe as effectually as might be , with convenient brevity and
delivered , though by reason of the accidents , which followed after ,
as you know , there could be no resolution taken , nor yet sollicited .
FITZHER,30.004.125

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this being most true , <paren> as god knoweth , whome I call to
witnes </paren> I dout not but that yf the learned men you speak of ,
will add , but one dramme of good will , to an ounce of theyr good
judgement , they will not so hardly censure our fact ,
FITZHER,30.004.126

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neverthelesse , if they still persist in that opinion , I pray you doe
me the favour to know , and send me theyr reasons , to the end , that
if they be of validity , we may heere reforme our erroneous consciences
, FITZHER,30.004.127

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for my part , I assure you , <paren> and I dare promise as much for
F. P. </paren> that I will most willingly acknowledge my fault , and
crave pardon , when I shall see just cause , and reason to move me unto
it , and woold do it for a farre lesse matter , then I perceave this ys
taken to bee . FITZHER,30.004.128

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And one thing I will be bold to say furder according , to my small
skill , that though an agent or friend shuld forbeare to execut <P_31>
his patrons , or friends order or desseyn , yea or hinder the course of
some busynes of his , not of evil will , or intent to crosse him ; but
only out of a desyre to doe him service , or pleasure , I see no reason
why such a fact shuld be held for scandalous , FITZHER,31.004.129

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for however such an agent might erre in judgement , I could not for my
part condemme him in conscience , FITZHER,31.004.130

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sure I ame that in practyse the lyke fauleth out often betwyxt
princes and theyr embassadours or agents ; FITZHER,31.004.131

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and because I ame , as it chanceth , at good leasure , and use my mans
hand , I will tell you an example that passed heere not many yeres agoe
. FITZHER,31.004.132

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King of Spayne wrote to the Duke of Sessa his embassadour heere ,
to geeve notice to the Duke of Bracciana , other wayse cauled D.
Virginio ursino , <paren> the greatest subject in Rome </paren> that he
deprived him of his protection , and pension , because he went into
England in Queene Elizabeths tyme , without his knowledge , and consent
, the queene being then publyke enemy to Spayne ; FITZHER,31.004.133

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the duke of Sessa judging it to be very inconvenient for the Kings
service , wold not execut his order , FITZHER,31.004.134

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wrote to the king his reasons , which his majesty approved , though
his former order was geven with the consent of all his counsel ;
FITZHER,31.004.135

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so Don Virginio hath still this day remayned a dependant of Spayne
; FITZHER,31.004.136

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and many such other cases might be alleadged , to show that in practise
agents are not so tyed to theyr patrons orders , but that they forbeare
to execut theym , when they doe it with desyre , and intention of theyr
service ; FITZHER,31.004.137

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this our case was farre otherwayse , as I have signifyed , seeing
there was no cours of busynes stopped , but meant to be furdered to the
full , and best content of your Patron , where in we presumed of his
good opinion and assurance of our good will to him , and douted not but
that he wold have allowed of our proceedings in his busynes , and taken
the same course him selfe , if he had benne heere , for such reasons ,
as I signifyed to you in my former letters , and therefore thinke now
needeles to repeate theym . FITZHER,31.004.138

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send you back the letter to P_NPR as you desyre , FITZHER,31.004.139

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the other two were delivered for ought we know , or can remember to
the contrary , FITZHER,31.004.140

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sure I ame , that there was no reason why we shuld open or withold
theym . FITZHER,31.004.141

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I perceave you have many bad reports of M=r= President our friend at
Doway where of I wold you had mentioned some part , to the end I might
have signifyed to you my opinion of the truth thereof ;
FITZHER,31.004.142

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I make no dout but that he ys wrongfully charged , by reason of
some controversyes he hath had of late with the Benedictins his new
neyghbours , whereof I know the grounds reasonable well <paren> because
the matter ys now heere at this present before his hollynes , committed
to Cardinal Bianchetti one of the Inquisition </paren> ,
FITZHER,31.004.143

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I assure you , that , for ought I see , he hath great reason in
that matter , FITZHER,31.004.144

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I verely think you woold say if you knew as much as I doe .
FITZHER,31.004.145

<P_32>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for the Colledge which you heare ys lyke to be sett up at Rheims by
the King of france , I rather wish it then beleeve it
FITZHER,32.004.146

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I perswade my selfe that the king ys farre from that intention .
FITZHER,32.004.147

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I ame very glad to see you have helpe to write your letters , as I ame
forced my selfe to have , and specially at this tyme , by reason of
greate payne in my teeth . FITZHER,32.004.148

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I almost forgot to advertyse you that I delivered M=r= Doctor Smiths
letter by the meanes of one of his hollynes secretaryes , who ys my
frend , as I also gave the substance of your letters to me <paren>
concerning the demaund of byshops , and sending procurators hither
</paren> , presently after my last letters unto you , as I promised you
to doe , FITZHER,32.004.149

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now upon your owne letter to his hollynes , I hope the sooner to
have answere . FITZHER,32.004.150

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whereas you remit the delivery of your letters , or of the substance
there of to me , you may assure your selfe , I will doe alwayse that
which I shall thinke coram deo to be the best , and most convenient for
the accomplishment of your desyre , FITZHER,32.004.151

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or els if I doe not what you request me , I will advertise you thereof
; and of my reason which I hope you shall have no cause to dislyke ;
FITZHER,32.004.152

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so for this tyme I take my leave recommending you to gods holly
protection , FITZHER,32.004.153

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Rome FITZHER,32.004.154

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
23 of August FITZHER,32.004.155

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Swinnerton . FITZHER,32.004.156

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you hartily commend me to good M=r= D. Smith whom I knew in
Spayne , and to M=r= Parker when you see him , FITZHER,32.004.157

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf I thought that you were lykely to meet with M=r= D. Bavan as
with the other I shuld also desyre to be most kyndly remembered to him
, FITZHER,32.004.158

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have honored and loved him many yeres . FITZHER,32.004.159

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
youre letter to Card. Buffalo I send not because he is still farre out
of Rome and hath geven over his office of viceprotector ;
FITZHER,32.004.160

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have answered you in former letters concerning the facultyes that
you requyre of him , or by his meanes . FITZHER,32.004.161

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have not only taken away the seale and name of the letter , that we
return unto you , but also razed out the yere and date and some 2 or 3
words which wold have discovered the author as much as the hand and
seale , though you gave me no commission in your letter to do it ,
FITZHER,32.004.162

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we presume that youre self and your patron wold wish it to be donne
, yf you considered the reason that moveth us thereto ; so that we see
some things must be donne by discretion in absence of frends .
FITZHER,32.004.163

<P_33>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After all this upon better deliberation , fearing that yf the original
letter be sent it may discover it self yf it shuld fall into evil hands
<paren> except it shuld be much defaced </paren> we have thought good
to stay it until we heare from you whether you will have it sent as it
is , or the coppy , which may be razed yf you think good , where it
shall seeme convenient , and the original kept entyre
FITZHER,33.004.164

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys we do rather because we think it importheth not so much to
send it speedily as safely at least by furder order from you , the
peril considered . FITZHER,33.004.165

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_004:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
in the meane tyme yt remeyneth here safe at your frends commandment .
FITZHER,33.004.166

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_005> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_THOMAS_WORTHINGTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1548?>

<P_37>

{ED:X._TO_WORTHINGTON,_PRESIDENT_OF_DOUAY,_6_SEPTEMBER_1608 .}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Good M=r= president , I am sure you long to heare what passeth here in
your bussines with the Benedictins . FITZHER,37.005.167

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
all I can tell you yet , is that Don Anselmo <P_38> hath <paren> with
the advyse and assistence of the procurator general of theyr order
</paren> besought hys holines to command that theyr matters with the
fathers and you , may be handled examined and determined by the whole
congregation of the inquisition , and not stand only upon the relation
of Cardinal Bianchetti , FITZHER,38.005.168

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they left with hys hollines a memorial to the same effect ,
FITZHER,38.005.169

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the day after notifyed to the Cardinal , that the popes hollines
had geven theym order , to informe the whole inquisition ,
FITZHER,38.005.170

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the same also they signifyed to F. parsons <paren> having belyke
mistaken something that hys holynes had sayd unto theym </paren> ,
FITZHER,38.005.171

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for within two or 3 dayes after , hys hollynes sent theyr memorial to
Card. Bianchetti with order to heare and relate the cause as before ,
FITZHER,38.005.172

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and notwithstanding they have ben tampering since , by other meanes to
have yt out of hys hands , but in vayne , FITZHER,38.005.173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as I understand , the whole congregation hath ben disgusted with
thys theyr manner of proceding . so that now they must passe by his
hands , who nevertheles , they may be well assured will do theym no
wrong . FITZHER,38.005.174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they geve up nothing in thys world in wryting as yet eyther-1 agaynst
the fathers , or you , FITZHER,38.005.175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the truth ys , yt ys alreddy evident that they have nothing to say
of substance . FITZHER,38.005.176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they urge to have our wrytings and complaynts which the Card. refuseth
to geve theym except they will put in theyrs agaynst us , so that we
stand expecting what they will do . FITZHER,38.005.177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yesterday the cardinal told me that the only thing which they object
agaynst you , in theyr own defence , ys that you are altogether ruled
in thys , by father parsons and the Jesuits and that thys your demand
of theyr remove from doway , procedeth rather from theym then from you
, which I flatly deny FITZHER,38.005.178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have showed some of your earnest letters to me FITZHER,38.005.179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and urge the reasons , which of theym selves are sufficient to move you
to desyre to be separated from theym ; FITZHER,38.005.180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
finally I still insist upon thys poynt that what composition so ever be
made betwixt theym and the fathers for other colledges , there can be
none made with you , but to remove eyther theym or you , for that your
colledge being as it ys , ther can not be such disciplin observed as in
the colledges of the fathers , in respect , that many of your schollers
lye abroad in the towne , which can not be helped , for lack of
sufficient lodging within the house . FITZHER,38.005.181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
besydes that I urge much the practise of F. Whyte with the Embassadour
and the heretykes , which ys <P_39> sufficiently proved by the
depositions that I have presented . so that we must now expect what
$will $be {TEXT:wilbe} the end , though I think yt $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} some dayes or perhaps weeks passe before there can be any
conclusion , FITZHER,39.005.182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane tyme , I long greatly to heare from you , and to have
a letter of your owne to Card. Bianchetti which I requyred , when he
was first appoynted to heare the matter . FITZHER,39.005.183

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane tyme I do dayly recommend it to god to dispose of yt to
hys glory and the good of our cause FITZHER,39.005.184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so for thys tyme , I take my leave , recommending my self hartily
unto you and you to gods holly protection . FITZHER,39.005.185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Rome the 6 of September FITZHER,39.005.186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
your as my owne T. Fitzherbert . FITZHER,39.005.187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:60?
LETTER:FITZHER_005:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} All M=to= Ill=e= , et M=to= R=do= Sig=re= Pr'on mio
oss=mo= il Sig=re= Dottore Worthingtono presidente del collegio Inglese
di Duaco . Doway FITZHER,39.005.188

<Q_FIT_A_1608_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_006> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_44>

{ED:XII._[FITZHERBERT]_TO_SALVIN_[BIRKHEAD],_11_OCTOBER_1608 .}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend Syr . I wrote to you 8 days agoe to acknowledge the
receat of yours of the 23 of July and the 4 of August , promising
therein to send you the resolution of the douts you propounded therein
at my first oportunity , which at thys present I can not performe
because Cardinal Bianchetti went upon a suddayn to frescata , where he
ys at thys present ; FITZHER,44.006.189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as I wrote in my last , thys being a tyme of vacation , here $will
$be {TEXT:wilbe} litle negotiation until alhollotyde .
FITZHER,44.006.190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane tyme to tell you our opinion here , concerning the hearing
of the masse of the priests in the Clink , we think that seeing no
excommunication hath passed agaynst them <paren> for any thing that we
know </paren> there ys no dout but that theyr masses may be heard ,
though they have lost theyr facultyes ; FITZHER,44.006.191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it may be you suppose they are excommunicated which is more then we
know . FITZHER,44.006.192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whereas you earnestly desyre to know my opinion concerning some meanes
to satisfy your brethrens request etc F. parsons and I have conferred
about it , FITZHER,44.006.193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he will wryte unto you what hath occurred to him for your and their
satisfaction in that poynt , which seemeth to me a good meanes to
content theym with reason , FITZHER,44.006.194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for other things I referre you to my last . FITZHER,44.006.195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I am to request you to commend me very hartily to M=r= doctor
Weston , though unacquainted with him , except I saw him ones at doway
when I passed that way with the duke of feria , FITZHER,44.006.196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I pray you tell him that I perceave by a late letter of hys to F.
parsons , that <P_45> amongst other learned and laudable workes of hys
, now in hand he hath one to prove that the catholyke religion ys most
fit for the government of state , which ys the special subject of a
treatise which I have now in hand , and ys almost reddy for the presse
, in discharge of my promise made in the first part of the sayd
treatise concerning pollicy and religion , printed above five yeres
agoe ; FITZHER,45.006.197

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
though it may be he hath not heard of it , and much lesse seene and
read it ; nevertheles I heare it hath bin and ys currant among the
heretykes . FITZHER,45.006.198

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
howsoever it ys I wold we might have conferred by letters concerning
our handling one and the self same matter at one tyme , to the end we
might at least have taken a different course . FITZHER,45.006.199

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf I had not alreddy promised thys second part , and therefore stand
bound , as it were , in credit to performe it I wold upon thys
advertisement of hys labours to the same purpose , suppresse myne ;
FITZHER,45.006.200

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf I had ymagined that he or any man of hys sufficiency wold have
undertaken to wryte of that matter in our tongue , I wold have borne
him the respect to forbeare wholly to do it ; FITZHER,45.006.201

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but being engaged as I am and my treatise almost ready to be printed I
can not now well stay it , especially seeing I heare , that it is
expected of many . FITZHER,45.006.202

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it may be M=r= doctor thinketh , and with reason <paren> yf he have
seene my first part </paren> that I will not or rather am not able to
handle that subject sufficiently ; FITZHER,45.006.203

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truly I have reason myself to feare it ; FITZHER,45.006.204

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nevertheles yf he wold think it convenient <paren> seeing myne ys reddy
and promised , and as I heare , expected </paren> to stay hys until he
see what course I have taken , he may in my conceyt , make his worke
both more plausible and profitable , by adding and supplying afterwards
what may want in myne . FITZHER,45.006.205

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At least I have thought it my part to advertise M=r= doctor thus much ,
concerning my present labours , to the end we may take such course
betwixt us , as our endevours may be the better to the purpose .
FITZHER,45.006.206

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shuld be glad to know what course he taketh , FITZHER,45.006.207

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf he think good , I will send him the tytles of my chapters ,
which conteyne a summe of the whole ; FITZHER,45.006.208

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
though I think yt now needles , because , yt will not be long ere it be
in print , yet yf he desyre to see the same sooner , I will send theym
to him . FITZHER,45.006.209

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this I pray you tell him with my most affectionat commendations ,
and the lyke to good M=r= doctor Smith my acquayntance in Spayn ,
FITZHER,45.006.210

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you tell him I shall be very glad to see him here , and more
glad to serve him in what {in}_P I may , eyther-2 in your affayres or
his owne . FITZHER,45.006.211

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so for thys tyme I take my <P_46> leave in hast , recommending you
to gods holly protection . FITZHER,46.006.212

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from my old residence the 11 of October FITZHER,46.006.213

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Swynnerton . FITZHER,46.006.214

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:56
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:59
LETTER:FITZHER_006:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my very frend M=r= George Salvin FITZHER,46.006.215

<Q_FIT_A_1609_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_007> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_48>

{ED:XIV._FITZHERBERT_TO_BIRKHEAD,_23_MAY_1609.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend Syr . I have receaved you letter sent by M=r= doctor
Smith , FITZHER,48.007.216

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} reddy to geve you satisfaction concerning
that which you request of me therein , assisting hym from tyme to tyme
with my poore advyse and labour , wishing we may see the good effects ,
which you expect to the satisfaction of all our brethren there , and a
perfect peace amongst us all which I desyre to furder to the uttermost
of my power , though it were with losse of my blood ;
FITZHER,48.007.217

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore you may assure your self that there shall want nothing on
my part , that may help it forward , FITZHER,48.007.218

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the lyke I can assure you for F. Parsons , who hath alreddy geven
proof thereof to M=r= doctor Smith , not only in hys curteous
enterteyment , but also in yelding unto him , as much as he him self ,
or any other there with you can desyre , touching the first article of
the matters to be propounded to hys holynes ; though the truth ys I
have made some difficulty to make sure that you shuld be directly bound
not to consult with the Fathers , because I do not see by your
instructions or letters , that you desyre yt , but only that the clause
in pope Clements breve may be interpreted whether you stand alreddy
bound thereby or no . FITZHER,48.007.219

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but forasmuch as M=r= <P_49> Doctor protesteth that there will never be
peace otherwayse , and that , I fynd him resolut therein , and have
reason withall to think that he knoweth your mind better than I do , I
therefore yeld that it may be propounded in such manner , as I make
full account that you will be declared bound though how farre I can not
yet tell . FITZHER,49.007.220

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to-morrow we shall have audience of hys hollynes , as I take it ,
having only visited hitherto our protector , and Cardinal Borghese ; so
that I can geve you no furder account of any thing <P_50> yet , but
will do hereafter , as occasion shall requyre . FITZHER,50.007.221

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send you herewith an answere to your letter from the protector ; and
one from M=r= doctor Smith , who I dout not but will geve you ample
relation of hys proceedings hitherto , and so for thys tyme ,
FITZHER,50.007.222

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I take my leave recommending my self most humbly unto you , and you to
gods holly protection : FITZHER,50.007.223

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Rome the 23 of May . FITZHER,50.007.224

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Fitzherbert FITZHER,50.007.225

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Because I ymagin that F. parsons may have such bussines that he can not
wryte unto you at thys tyme , I think good to add a word or two
concerning him , that whereas you have geven order to M=r= doc. Smith
to conferre your affayres with him <paren> quatenus id suae sanctitati
placuerit </paren> it seemed convenient to him , that before he shuld
enter into any particuler consultation of the poyntes to be propounded
, M=r= doctor and I shuld demand his holynes lyking thereof , and the
rather because F. General was out of the towne , and thys seemed also
to me very necessary for the better expedition of the affayres , for
that , yf his holynes shuld command us to consult and agree amongst our
selves of the difficultyes and remedyes , <paren> which we made account
we shuld do with great facility </paren> the long course of
consultation by way of the inquisition <paren> whither our matters wold
be otherways referred </paren> wold be prevented , and all things
concluded with speed , and according to our owne agreements , and only
such matters remitted to the inquisition , as we our selves should not
agree upon , and determine . though we hoped that in conclusion , there
wold be no such at all . FITZHER,50.007.226

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thys seemed to F. parsons and me so probable , that we stood securely
upon it , FITZHER,50.007.227

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the father wold not agree to enter into any consultation of
particulers until eyther his holynes gave him leave <paren> according
to your limitation </paren> or at least that father general shuld
return and geve hys consent . FITZHER,50.007.228

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though M=r= Doctor Smith was herewith much offended for two or 3
dayes , yet at length Father general returning , and geving hys consent
to f. parsons to treat of those matters we are agreed to the
proposition of the first article , in such manner as I have signifyed
FITZHER,50.007.229

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I dout not but M=r= doctor hath written thereof to you more at
large , FITZHER,50.007.230

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I could have wished that he wold have yelded that we might move
his hollynes to geve us leave and order to agree of the remedyes
amongst ourselves , and then to represent theym <P_51> to him , rather
then to comit theym to be consulted in the inquisition , as they must
be , though we consult of theym never so much without his hollynes
order ; FITZHER,51.007.231

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but M=r= doctor will by no means yeld to thys , FITZHER,51.007.232

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore we yeld to him , to follow hys way . FITZHER,51.007.233

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys is all I shall need to signify to you at thys tyme and all
that hath passed in effect . FITZHER,51.007.234

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_007:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the right reverend M=r= George Birkhed Archpriest of
England . FITZHER,51.007.235

<Q_FIT_A_1609_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_008> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_THOMAS_WORTHINGTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1548?>

<P_55>

{ED:XVI._TO_WORTHINGTON,_PRESIDENT_OF_DOUAY,_22_AUGUST_1609 .}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshipfull and very reverend frend , My last letter , I feare me
, gave you small content , FITZHER,55.008.236

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and these I think will geve you as litle , though I verily hope it will
turne to your credit and reputation in the end . FITZHER,55.008.237

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our vyceprotector wryteth unto you , what hath ben sent hether from
those parts agaynst you , FITZHER,55.008.238

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath also geven me commission to advertise you thereof , which in
effect ys , that the nuntio hath sent the Cardinal a letter of yours to
him to be proposed to hys holynes with his answere to you , and a
memorial which was geven to the sayd nuntio agaynst you , charging you
to have made a precept or decree <paren> for so the Cardinal tearmeth
it </paren> that whosoever $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} priest in your
Colledge , must take an oth , or promise at least , not to enter into
any religion , except it be into the Society ; FITZHER,55.008.239

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and furthermore the nuntio hath written unto the Cardinal that you deny
to be subject to the rules made by hys hollynes betwixt the benedictins
and the fathers , and that he hath propounded to you , for the same ,
and for the foresayd decree ; FITZHER,55.008.240

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thus much concerning the nuntio hys letters hither . FITZHER,55.008.241

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All thys being read before hys hollynes in the Congregation of the
Inquisition , hys hollynes commanded the Cardinal to advertise you ,
that you are to take your self to be comprehended in the rules lately
made betwixt the Benedictines and the fathers , and to advyse you to
live peacefully with the Benedictins your <P_56> neyghbours ; which the
Cardinal hath told me he doth at thys tyme , wryting unto you by the
nuntio hys packet ; FITZHER,56.008.242

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And forasmuch as I assure my self , that the information of the decree
aforesayd , ys utterly false , I beseeched the Cardinal to advertise
you thereof particulerly , or els to geve me leave to do yt , to the
end you may answere yt , assuring my self , as I told the cardinal ,
that you will cleare your self fully therein , and show that the nuntio
hath ben extremely abused . FITZHER,56.008.243

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Cardinal hath promised me to wryte unto you of that point him self
. whereby you may take occasion to answere it fully , which I wold wish
you to do , by as autentical meanes , as you can devyse without
incurring the note of tumultuous dealing , which me thinks you may do ,
taking only the testimonyes of your colledge , with the subscriptions
of the priests , and such others as you shall think good , desyring the
Cardinal to procure that the matter may be further examined , by the
nuntio , to the end that your innocency may be knowen .
FITZHER,56.008.244

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It fauleth out well that you have just occasion to wryte hither to the
Cardinal as soone as the nuntio , in respect of the Cardinals letter to
you , FITZHER,56.008.245

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and although I think it convenient that you send your answere by the
way of the nuntio , informing him of what you wryte <paren> to hold him
still as benevolent as you may </paren> , yet , it ys necessary that in
any case you send me at the same tyme , a coppy of your letters and
dischardges or sooner rather then later , to the end I may deale with
the Card. effectually , yf the nuntio shuld chance to be slack .
FITZHER,56.008.246

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hys holynes and the Cardinals did not mislyke your letter written to
the nuntio , FITZHER,56.008.247

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but noted your moderation therein towards the benedictins , as I
perceave by the Cardinal , who told me that you speake no yl of theym
therein at all ; FITZHER,56.008.248

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There came also at thys tyme another complaynt concerning the blessed
martir M=r= Gervas <paren> as I take it </paren> , or some such other ,
as the benedictins do challenge for theyres whereof they say you
published the contrary making him a seculer priest , FITZHER,56.008.249

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I think there ys no great matter made of that ; FITZHER,56.008.250

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet yf the Card speake of yt in hys letter , you may answere as you
shall think good ; FITZHER,56.008.251

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
otherways you may do well to let it passe , and to take no knowledge of
it ; neyther of any thing els that I wryte unto you in thys further
then the Cardinal him self geeveth you occasion by hys letter , using
my advertisement of the rest for your information only , without taking
knowledge of yt from hence , though yf you can justly pretend to know
yt otherways , you may then answere to yt as you shall think good ,
making mention of the meanes whereby you know yt , that it may appeare
you have it not from me . FITZHER,56.008.252

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Cardinal hath advysed me to take a coppy of the rules betwixt the
Benedictins and the fathers , out of the inquisition to send you ,
which I mean to do at my next opportunity FITZHER,56.008.253

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now I can not do it before thys post depart . FITZHER,56.008.254

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf you cleare your selfe of that decree layd to your chardge <paren> as
I dout not but you will </paren> , you may do well , by that occasion
to represent the small lykelyhood <P_57> you have of the quiet
demeanour of your neyghbours , and thereupon to urge in humble and myld
manner , your separation as before you did . FITZHER,57.008.255

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I take yt you have heretofore dismissed some , who you discovered to
have a vocation to the society and refused to admit others who had the
lyke vocation ; whereof it were very good you shuld send good testimony
now upon thys occasion , seeing they chardge you directly with so great
partiality . FITZHER,57.008.256

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I looke that before thys letter come to your hands you will have
answered to the nuntios letters to you and sent me also a coppy thereof
, whereby I may help to give some satisfaction in the meane tyme
FITZHER,57.008.257

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and what shall want therein , you may now justly supply in your answere
to the Cardinal . FITZHER,57.008.258

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I dout not but in the end your adversaryes will rest foyled ,
and your innocency cleared , wherein I and other your frends here ,
will assist you to our uttermost . FITZHER,57.008.259

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and si deus nobiscum quis contra nos ; to whose holly protection , I
recommend you , willing you to have courage , FITZHER,57.008.260

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for truly seeing your adversaryes proceed by way of calumniation , I
make no dout but you will in the end prevayl with much reputation .
FITZHER,57.008.261

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Rome the 22 of August FITZHER,57.008.262

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Fitzherbert FITZHER,57.008.263

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I make account that you have alreddy yelded some reason to the nuntio
why you did not account your self comprehended in the rules made for
the Fathers and Benedictins ; FITZHER,57.008.264

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wold wish that in your letters to the Cardinal you signify that
the reason was because you ar not eyther of the religious , nor your
colledge under the government of eyther of them , and that therefore it
seemed to you that those rules did not concerne you though nevertheles
you meant to observe them exactly on your part , as you have donne ever
since . FITZHER,57.008.265

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WORTHINGTON:MALE:_:1548?:61?
LETTER:FITZHER_008:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} All M=to= Ill=re= et M=to= R=do= Sig=re= il Sig=re=
Dottore Thomaso Worthingtono Presidente del venerabile collegio Inglese
di Duaco . FITZHER,57.008.266

<Q_FIT_A_1609_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_009> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_60>

{ED:XVIII._FITZHERBERT_TO_SALVIN,_31_OCTOBER_1609.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Reverend Syr , I have receaved yours of the 9 of August , in
answere of one of myne of the 27 of June , since which tyme I have
wrytten dyvers tymes unto you , as of the 8 and 22 of August and the 19
of September . FITZHER,60.009.267

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whereas you wryte that rumours have ben spredd there amongst our
brethren , that I and your ould frend have crossed M=r= doctor Smith in
hys petitions and that you have written unto me somewhat roundly about
the same , I have not receaved any such letters of yours ,
FITZHER,60.009.268

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neyther have deserved any such round wryting as you mention , for that
I have punctually observed , both what you have willed me , and I also
promised in my letters to you , and by word of mouth to doctor Smith ,
which was , not to hinder hys negotiation here in any of hys
propositions <paren> though <P_61> never so much mislyked by me
</paren> no nor so much as to declare my opinion unto hys hollynes or
the Cardinals except I were commanded to do yt ; which I say I Have
truly observed ; FITZHER,61.009.269

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so little have I ben able to contradict hys propositions , that I
do protest unto you , I did not know some particulers thereof ,
otherways then by the answere , which was always geven him in my
presence . FITZHER,61.009.270

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dout not but you have understood ere thys , what success he hath had
in all that which he hath hitherto propounded , FITZHER,61.009.271

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though it were true , which you say ys there recorded , and he , as
yt seemeth , supposeth , I meane that any man had crossed him , yet he
shuld have no reason to dout of the equity of hys hollynes Judgment and
of the Cardinals of the Inquisition , who understanding fully hys
reasons , <paren> which he hath , no dout , amply layd doune unto them
, as well by wryting as by word of mouth </paren> have ben able to
judge of the validity thereof , and consequently of the convenience of
the propositions , and have accordingly resolved , without respect , of
any mans opposition , further then reason requyreth which always ought
to prevayle , and doth , no dout , in that grave and wyse congregation
of the inquisition , where no one man , nor a few , but the main part
determineth , FITZHER,61.009.272

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore , I say , though any man shuld <paren> eyther by
commandment or otherways of zeale to gods cause </paren> have suggested
contrary reasons to M=r= doctors , all that could be thought thereof in
my conceyt <paren> hys holynes resolution being considered </paren> ys
, that M=r= doctors reasons were deficient , and deserved not to be
admitted , in which case no man ought <paren> as I am persuaded
</paren> so much as to wish that they had prevayled , the matters
concerning gods cause as they do ; FITZHER,61.009.273

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
besyds that much ys , in thys and such lyke cases to be ascrybed to the
will of god , and particuler direction of the holy ghost , who no dout
assisteth hys hollynes in such mature deliberations , using such
convenient meanes of consultation , as he doth in that grave
congregation ; in which respect I can not but hope not only that the
best resolution ys taken , I meane most convenient for our church and
most for gods glory , but also that you , of your wisdome will so
conceave , and rest satisfyed therewyth , how so ever M=r= doctor or
any man els may incyte you to the contrary especially seeing your self
have written dyvers tymes both-6 to F. parsons and me that you only
desyred that your agent shuld be heard , and that hys holynes shuld
determine what soever it shuld please him , wherewith you sayd you wold
be satisfyed ; FITZHER,61.009.274

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yea and you also gave us leave to propound our reasons to the contrary
, yf we thought it convenient so that M=r= doctor <P_62> might be heard
and understood as no dout he hath ben in all hys propositions
FITZHER,62.009.275

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys I am bold to say unto you in respect of the confidence you
repose in me , as also in discharge of my conscience , assuring you
nevertheles , as I have donne heretofore , that notwithstanding any
diversity or contrariety of opinion or judgment which I may have in any
of M=r= doctors propositions , I will in respect of you so long as I am
your agent , forbeare to signify the same to hys holynes or the
cardinals , except I be commanded to declare yt , in such sort that I
may think my self bound thereto in conscience , in which case I am sure
neyther you , nor any man els wold wish me to conceal yt .
FITZHER,62.009.276

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wrote unto you in my last , my opinion concerning doctor Worthington
, and the bussines touching him ; FITZHER,62.009.277

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I will now only ad , that I make no dout but that he will be able
to put hys college in good order , and have such sufficient men about
him as you wish , which for some yeares past he could not have in
respect of his extreme poverty FITZHER,62.009.278

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I heare he hath alreddy called unto him some men of worth , and
sett up a lesson of divinity , and another of cases , besyds other good
orders established ; whereof I dout not but you will heare dayly and
see better fruite then some as yt seemeth , have reported .
FITZHER,62.009.279

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have of late <paren> I meane during these vacations </paren>
differred to deale for your pension , which now by gods grace we will
presently negotiat , hys holynes being returned to S. peters , and the
Cardinals to theyr houses from these recreations ; FITZHER,62.009.280

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
god send us as good success therein , as you deserve and we desyre ,
FITZHER,62.009.281

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for my part , I assure you there shall want no care or diligence .
FITZHER,62.009.282

<P_63>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I understand that you are advertised there , that M=r= doctor Norton
came hither to crosse M=r= doctor Smith , in the matter of busshops ;
FITZHER,63.009.283

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what some men might imagin of hys coming hither I know not
FITZHER,63.009.284

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but sure I am , that he delt not in such matter here , and that having
donne his devotions , and enjoyed the comfort of thys holly place some
3 or 4 months , he returned with grant of some indulgences and
privileges for the monastery of our cuntrywemen at Brussels , where hys
sister ys , as I think you knowe . FITZHER,63.009.285

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for the matter of busshops yt was not so much as moved or spoken of
, for ought I knowe , whyles he were here . FITZHER,63.009.286

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I think I have wearyed you no lesse then myself with thys long letter ;
FITZHER,63.009.287

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore wil take my leave , recommending you to gods holly
protection ; FITZHER,63.009.288

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Rome the last of October FITZHER,63.009.289

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Fitzherbert . FITZHER,63.009.290

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have donne your commendations to F. parsons and your message ,
whereto I think he will answere him self . FITZHER,63.009.291

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I will say that I hope your wisdome will provyde that his holynes
interpretation of the late breve , shal not produce a contrary effect
to hys meaning , I meane a greater separation and division then before
; as yt must needs do yf you may not hold with the fathers so much as a
frendly correspondence by letters which shall not concerne your
government , FITZHER,63.009.292

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf any man persuade you to that , I think you may well feare that
he is no such frend of peace as were convenient , what so ever he may
pretend the contrary . FITZHER,63.009.293

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:57
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:60
LETTER:FITZHER_009:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my very loving frend Mr George Salvin geve these .
FITZHER,63.009.294

<Q_FIT_A_1610_T_TFITZHERBE> <L_FITZHER_010> <A_THOMAS_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1552> <R_GEORGE_BIRKHEAD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1549>

<P_68>

{ED:XX._[FITZHERBERT]_TO_SALVIN_[BIRKHEAD],_6_FEBRUARY_1610. }

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right reverend Syr . When I wrote unto you last <paren> which was the
16 of January </paren> I did not think that I shuld have occasion to
trooble you agayn , as now I am forced to do , by the commandment of
Cardinal Bianchetti our vyceprotector , who hath geven me thys letter
to send you , conteyning the resolution of hys holynes , concerning all
the propositions of your agent M=r= D. Smith , and being a duplicat of
that which hys grace also sent you at thys tyme , by your sayd agent ;
FITZHER,68.010.295

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I perceave that his grace considering the danger of the passage of
letters , and that a dispatch which I sent you the last sommer from hys
grace , about the priests in the Clink , was lost , and that this also
concerneth the same matter , as he telleth me , he hath therfore
thought good to send thys two ways ; FITZHER,68.010.296

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall not need to say any thing unto you concerning the contents
thereof , for that the same will satisfy you fully ; FITZHER,68.010.297

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
only I can not omit to signify unto you the hope I have , that now you
will show your wisdome and piety , not only in conforming your self to
hys holynes pleasure <paren> as you have oft assured me , you wuld do ,
when you shuld see <P_69> hys answere </paren> but also in procuring
the lyke conformity in your subjects , to the end we may have peace and
quyet amongst us which hys hollyness greatly desireth . Whereof he hath
seen alreddy here very good beginning , in the late peace and
reconciliation made betwixt the Benedictins and the fathers of the
Society , which doth dayly produce good effects ; besyds the conformity
of others here , who do now dispose them selves to peace and quietnes
more then in former tymes , as M=r= Doctor your agent doth well see
FITZHER,69.010.298

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my hope ys that he will also conforme him self thereto as he hath
promised , FITZHER,69.010.299

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I dout not but you shall sufficiently see yt by hys letters , so
that now not only we , here , but also hys holynes and the Cardinals of
the Inquisition do expect the confirmation of thys good work from you
and your brethren there ; which me thinks may be the more easily
granted , and the better performed by you , because there ys nothing
requyred at your and theyr hands , for ought I see , but that you will
seeke no innovations , nor to passe the bounds of hys holynes breves ,
which being observed , I can not see , how there can be any further
cause of dissention betwixt you , and the fathers , who will not , I am
well assured , deale with you , or with any matter pertaining to your
government ; so that it now resteth in your owne hands , both-12 to
make and conserve peace yf it please you and our brethren with you ,
whereof I can not but have great hope , knowing your wisdome and
charity as I doe for the accomplishment whereof , my prayers to god or
other endevours shall never want : FITZHER,69.010.300

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so for thys tyme I take my leave , recommending you to gods holly
protection , and resting yours in the old manner . FITZHER,69.010.301

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from my old residence the 6 of February FITZHER,69.010.302

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours as my owne T. Swynnerton . FITZHER,69.010.303

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FITZHERBERT:MALE:_:1552:58
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BIRKHEAD:MALE:_:1549:61
LETTER:FITZHER_010:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my very good frend Mr George Salvin .
FITZHER,69.010.304
