<B_GARDIN>

<Q_GAR_A_1528_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_037> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_MATTHEW_PARKER>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1504>

<P_4>

{ED:2._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Calais,_18_February,_1528}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that synnes my cumming hither to
Calays , Master Deputie , in whom for your Graces sake I have founde
moch kindnes , hath at lenght declared and shewed unto me the poore
state and condition of this towne , gretly mornyng and lamenting the
same ; and , upon such letters as he hath receyved from the capitain of
Boleyn , wherof I suppose he hath advertised your Grace , moch more
perplexed and troubled in mynde howe the necessites of this towne , if
wer shulde nowe ensue , as it is spoken , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
releved , oonles your Grace cause provision to be made in tyme , like
as , I doubte not , and have also said unto him , your Grace hath
already doon . GARDIN,4.037.1

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , hering with myn eres complayntes made on every partye ,
aswel of extreme povertie and det as also want and skarcyte of vytal ,
I thought I coulde noo lesse doo but to advertise your Grace therof ;
whom I wel knowe to have singuler respecte and consideration to the
mayntenaunce of this towne , which nowe specially requirith your Graces
help and counfort to be adhibite in tyme . GARDIN,4.037.2

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This night arryved here the Popes ambassadour , having very fayre
passage . GARDIN,4.037.3

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I harde say by his servauntes that Thadeus was at Dover ;
GARDIN,4.037.4

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as yet he camme not here . GARDIN,4.037.5

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tomorowe in the mornyng Master Fox and I take our journay by post
towardes Parys , God willing ; Who preserve your good Grace .
GARDIN,4.037.6

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Calays the xviij day of February . GARDIN,4.037.7

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble servaunt and dayly bedeman Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,4.037.8

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_037:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,4.037.9

<Q_GAR_A_1528_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_038> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_MATTHEW_PARKER>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1504>

<P_5>

{ED:3._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Viterbo,_11_June,_[1528]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith yt your Highnes to understande that , endevoring myself as far
as my poore wit , lernyng , industrye , and diligence coulde extende ,
I have at the last conduced the setting forwarde of the Cardinal
Campegius , as shal appere unto your Majestie by such letters of the
said Campegius as he wrote unto me , and as I sende unto Master Fox to
be declared unto your Highnes at lenght ; not doubting but , whenne
your Grace shal have herde the processe of our doinges here , and what
we have doon for the diligent and spedy accomplishement of your Graces
commaundementes , I shal appere unto your Majestie always in good mynde
and wil to have been , and to be , of oon sorte ; and in your Highnes
causes soo to have conjoyned faith and diligence , grounded upon a
sincere mynde and intent , as hitherto I have had them in like
consideration , with noo lesse studye and desire of mynde to declare
the oon thenne the other ; being to me , in myn opinion , asmoch
hevynes to be accused or suspected in the jugement of your Majestie of
my diligence or sincerite in this matier , as if it wer doubted de fide
, which offense is infamis et capitalis . Wherfor most humbly and upon
my knees I desire your Highnes to here my justificacion in that behaulf
, accompting al the poore service I have or maye do to be wel employed
and highly rewarded , if it may suffise ad probandum fidem et
diligenciam Maiestati vestre . GARDIN,5.038.10

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It may like your Highnes to be also advertised that , after moch
difficulte , many altercacions , and other meanes used to compasse and
conduce the atteyning of the commission decretal in secrete maner , and
finally moch travayling howe to assure the Popes Holynes that the same
shuld soo be secretly kepte , at the last , upon difficultie founde of
the sure conveying therof to your Highnes , and chaunces which might
fortune in the waye , his Holines coulde oonly satisfie himself in
sending it by the Cardinal Campegius , GARDIN,5.038.11

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo hath promised us , like as by his letters <P_6> your Majestie
shal understande . Which , knowing it to be nowe more tyme your Highnes
had dedes then promises , and wolde therfor not somoch regarde our
relation , we caused , with moch difficultie , his Holynes to wryte ;
in which letters we wold have had his Holines to expresse the matier in
special termes , GARDIN,6.038.12

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but for feare ne litere interciderent , we coulde not obteyne that of
him ; GARDIN,6.038.13

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he said your Majestie shal understande his mynde by these wordes :
Inventuri sumus aliquam formam satisfaciendi Maiestati tue etc. ;
assuring your Highnes that his Holynes hath , in myn opinion , a fast
and sincere love towardes your Grace , not grounded upon his necessites
, but upon such devocion as he hath perceyved and doth dayly
understande to be in your Majestie towardes this see . In the jugement
wherof , like as I maye be deceyved , and with protestacion therof
write unto your Highnes , soo I have good matier , outwarde and
apparaunt , wherupon to grounde my said opinion , and therfor have
thought convenient to signifie the same unto your Grace . Wherin if I
sawe otherwise , I wolde likewise soo write ; being of this
determination evermore , al other respectes set aparte , to saye and
write unto your Majestie the truth and lightlywodes of truth as they
shal appere unto me , whether the same shal delighte and please for the
tyme or otherwise ; knowing wel that to be the oonly thing which shal
obteyne solidam veram et perpetuam gratiam a Maiestate vestra , que
templum est fidei et veritatis unicum in orbe relictum , in quo certa
harum numina esse creduntur . Which thing moved me by myn other letters
to expresse such dispayre as I thenne had , being moch more thenne I
coulde by wordes in convenient maner expresse ; trusting always that in
compassing and conducing such thinges as depende upon a nother mannes
acte , your Highnes wil not conjoyne studium et voluntatem meam cum
eventu ; but perceyving fidem , studium , et voluntatem meam to have
effectually concurred , as it hath and shal ever doo , soo to accepte
and repute the same accordingly ; as my trust is , and ever hath been ,
your Highnes wil graciously doo , and esteme me a true and faythful
subgiet , and for the benevolence which your Majestie hath above my
merites shewed unto me , as sincerely , ernestly , and $with asmoch
good wil to the uttermost of my litel power etiam cum iactura vite ,
being in that cace non iactura sed lucrum , in the execution of your
Highnes commaundementes and accheving of your desires , to procede and
employe pro portione facultatum as any other . GARDIN,6.038.14

<P_7>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus your Majestie nowe understandith howmoch the wordes spoken by your
Grace to Master Tuke doo prik me ; and having , bifore the receipte of
those letters , as this berer canne tel , brought al thinges to
conclusion , compelle me to trouble and moleste your Highnes with moo
wordes thenne wer convenient for me to use unto your Grace , soo rudely
cowched and inelegantly writen . GARDIN,7.038.15

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , considering they procede ex iusto dolore meo , I $have
good hope your Highnes wil soo accepte and take them in good parte
accordingly . GARDIN,7.038.16

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I praye Almighty God long to preserve your most noble and royal
astate . GARDIN,7.038.17

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Viterbe , the xj=th= day of June . GARDIN,7.038.18

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes most humble subget , servaunt , and dayly oratour , Steven
Gardyner GARDIN,7.038.19

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:31?
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:24
LETTER:GARDIN_038:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,7.038.20

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_018> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_BENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_9>

{ED:7._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Rome,_15_February,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_018:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Majestie to understande that , albeit I have noo
matier of importaunce to signifie unto the same , yet I have thought
good by these my letters to advertise your Highnes of myn arryval here
; with this also , <P_10> that oonles I finde the Popes Holynes of
other disposition then as yet by conjectures I canne perceyve he shulde
be of , I shal not doo that service to your Highnes by my cummyng
hither that I wolde have doon ; GARDIN,10.018.21

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_018:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
like as your Majestie shal more particularly perceyve by such letters
as Master Bryan writeth unto the same at this tyme , the specialtes
wherof I am not pryve unto , by reason of my late arryval here , but
oonly by hym perceyving . Nevertheles , by such thinges as I have herde
bifore my cummyng here , and that which I have seen and herde synnes my
cummyng hither , that al thinges be not here in such trayne as I
trusted {in}_P to have founde them , but very far discrepaunt from
lightlywode of atteyning your Highnes purpose , nevertheles , these
lightlywodes shal in noo parte let me to experiment al wayes and meanes
possible for comprobacion of my fidelite and due obsequie in the
accomplishement of your Highnes commaundement . In doing wherof my
trust and hope is your Highnes wil accepte my true intent and diligent
service , which I shal not fayle to employe according to my most
bounden dutie during my lif , by the grace of God , Who ever preserve
your most noble and royal astate . GARDIN,10.018.22

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_018:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Rome , the xv=th= day of February . GARDIN,10.018.23

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_018:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes most humble subget , servaunt , and dayly oratour , Steven
Gardyner GARDIN,10.018.24

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_018:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,10.018.25

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_019> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_BENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_10>

{ED:8._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Rome,_3_March,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Majestie to understande that , like as we by our
commen letters have signified to my Lorde Legates Grace , to be
declared unto your Highnes , we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} as yet have
accesse to the Popes presence , ne , by reason of the variete of his
sikenes , canne tel whenne to have . The Bishop of Verone shewed us
that , in his opinion , he thought we shulde <P_11> not speke with the
Pope this moneth , which delay is moch to our regret , and soomoch the
$more for $that we perceyve $not such causes of hope here to atteyne
any thing at the Poopes hande , as your Highnes trusted of at my
departure out of Englande . GARDIN,11.019.26

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ThEmperialles have in these parties the superior hande , aswel for that
it lieth in them to stop the accesse of vitayl and soo famen this
countrie , as also that nowe here is in these quartiers noo strenght
for the liege , but they may at ther libertie goo whither they wyl ;
being nowe the Prince of Orenge within these iij=xx= {ED:60} myles ,
with xij=M= {ED:12,000} men , who hath within two dayes past expugned a
citie called Matrice , which oonly on this side the realme remayned for
the liege . GARDIN,11.019.27

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Seignour Renzius hath but iiij=M= {ED:4000} men GARDIN,11.019.28

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is ccc {ED:300} myles hens , keping that presidie in the cities of
Barlet and of Trane in Apulia , yet in possession of the liege ; which
, as thambassadours of Fraunce and Venise confesse , with whom we have
commened , and likewise with other experte in those parties for that
purpose , is noo let to thEmperialles , but that they maye goo out of
the realme and cumme hither or to Florence , as they shal thinke good .
Which thinges be , in our commen letters to my Lord Legat , writen more
at large . GARDIN,11.019.29

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As touching the promyse made by the Pope and delyvered to Master
Gregory , wherof the said Master Gregory at my laste departing hens had
writen to my Lord Legate , and your Majestie at my last departing from
the same spake unto me , marveling that the said Master Gregory had not
sent the same by his kynnesman Vincentius , I understande by the said
Master Gregory , that it is , as your Highnes toke it , that the Pope
hath made such a wryting ; GARDIN,11.019.30

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bycause it was at Bononye at the depech of the said Master
Vincentius , therfor it was not sent , GARDIN,11.019.31

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it is here save , to be sent bifore , or sent by oon of us at our
retourne , as <em> shal stonde with </em> your Highnes pleasour .
GARDIN,11.019.32

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Praying Almighty God to preserve your most noble and royal person .
GARDIN,11.019.33

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Rome , the iij=de= daye of Marche . GARDIN,11.019.34

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes most humble subget , servaunt , and dayly oratour , Steven
Gardyner GARDIN,11.019.35

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_019:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,11.019.36

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_020> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_BENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_12>

{ED:9._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Rome,_21_April,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Majestie to understande that , besides all other
meanes used to the Popes Holynes for atteyning and accheving your
Highnes purpose and intent , such as in our commen letters to my Lorde
Legates Grace and my several letters to the same be conteyned at lenght
, I have also aparte shewed unto the Popes Holynes that which your
Highnes shewed me in your galery at Hamptoncourt , concernyng the
sollicitacion of the princes of Almayn , and such other matier as shuld
and ought to feare the Popes said Holynes ; adding also those reasons
which might induce the same to adhere expressely to your Highnes and
the French King , and soo to take the more corage to accomplish your
Highnes desires ; using al wayes possible to enforce him to doo sumwhat
, being a man of such nature as he never resolvith any thing , but by
summe violent affection compelled therunto . GARDIN,12.020.37

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And considering we canne spede noo better at his hande , it agreeth
with that your Majestie , of your high wisedom , bifore perpended :
that his Holynes wolde doo nothing which might offende thEmperour ,
oonles he first determyned himself to adhere to your Highnes and the
French King , and soo to declare himself , conteyning himself noo
lenger in neutralite ; which he wil not doo , ne , the state of the
affayres here considered , it wer for his welth soo to doo , oonless
the liege otherwise proceded thenne they yet doo , or that his Holynes
wold determyne himself to leave thiese parties , and establish his see
in some other place ; forasmoch as , here being , he is dayly in the
daungier of thEmperialles , like as we have signified by our other
letters . GARDIN,12.020.38

<P_13>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Holynes is in a gret perplexite and agonye of mynde ,
GARDIN,13.020.39

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne canne tel what to doo . GARDIN,13.020.40

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He semeth in wordes , facion , and maner of speking , as though he
wolde doo sumwhat for your Highnes ; GARDIN,13.020.41

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet , whenne it commith to the point , nothing he doth .
GARDIN,13.020.42

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dare not saye certainly whither it be for feare or want of good wil ,
GARDIN,13.020.43

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I were loth to make a lye of hym , or to your Highnes , my prince ,
souverain lorde , and master . GARDIN,13.020.44

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally , I perceyve this by the Pope and al other here , that soo your
Highnes cause were determyned there by my Lordes Legates , they wolde
be glad therof . GARDIN,13.020.45

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , as I thinke , if thEmperour wolde make any sute against that
which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} doon there , they wolde serve him as
they nowe doo your Highnes , and soo dryve of the tyme ;
GARDIN,13.020.46

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they seme to be soo mynded , as in this cause they wolde suffre
moch but doo very litel . Wherfor , if my Lord Campegius wyl set apart
al other respectes and frankely promyse your Highnes to geve sentence
for youe , there must be your Highnes remedye short and expedite ;
GARDIN,13.020.47

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne ther shall want wyt , by an other meanes , to mete with such delayes
as this false counterfete breve hath caused . GARDIN,13.020.48

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For with these men here your Highnes shal by noo sute proufyt ; which
thing I wryte unto your Highnes as of my most bounden dutie I ought to
doo . GARDIN,13.020.49

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There shal every day rise newe devices , and noon take effecte , but
long delayes and wasted tyme . Wherfor , doing what I canne yet to get
the best , althowe we be fully answered therin , I shal doo what I
canne to get the commission amplified asmoch as may be , and , at the
lest , to extende to the reprobation of the brief - if I canne ,
GARDIN,13.020.50

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I dare promise noo thing to your Majestie at this mannes hande .
GARDIN,13.020.51

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} obteyned , if any be obteyned ,
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} , according to your Highnes pleasour , sent by
Master Bryan . GARDIN,13.020.52

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as your Highnes in your gracious letters directed to me and
my colleges , marvelith that I have not or this tyme advertised the
same of such bulles as your Majestie willed me to impetrate here , I
thought veryly that forasmuch as the same be to be impetrate at the
Popes hande , and that we signified unto your Majestie , by our letters
, of the Popes gret sikenes and howe we coulde not have accesse unto
the same , that it had been superfluous for me , in my letters , to
make any mention of the said bulles , signifying unto your Highnes nowe
that , having those matiers , as it becommith me to have , in good
remembraunce , I have not yet broken with the Popes Holynes in them ,
ne thought good to interrupte the prosecution of your Highnes matier
with the pursuite <P_14> of those ; saving that I spake a worde to the
Popes Holynes de ecclesiis cathelralibus , and his Holynes said nothing
coulde be doon tyl the Cardinal Sanctorum Quatuor be recovered .
GARDIN,14.020.53

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In other thinges I spake not ; GARDIN,14.020.54

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for our audience with the Popes Holynes hath been soo skarse that we
thought it litel ynowe to spende the same in your Highnes principal
matier . GARDIN,14.020.55

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to advertise your Highnes what counsail is here conducted for the
defence of your Majesties cause , the same shal understande that this
Courte , as it hath suffred in al other thinges , soo it is also moch
appeyred in lerned men , GARDIN,14.020.56

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and of them that be , we dare not trust every oon , ne causa Maiestatis
vestre illis denudata , they should prodere illam adversariis . Wherfor
counseling as yet oonly with two , the oon called Dominus Michael , the
other Dominus Sigismundus , we , perceyving nothing to be sollicited
openly on the other syed , and that here as yet hath been noo nede to
dispute openly , have not communicate your Highnes matier to noo moo .
GARDIN,14.020.57

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for that article , Quod papa non posset dispensare , the Pope
himself wil here noo disputacions in it ; GARDIN,14.020.58

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , soo he might reteyne your Highnes good mynde , he semith not to
care for himself whither your Highnes cause be decided by that article
or noo , soo he did it not . GARDIN,14.020.59

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But surely it apperith , as a man may gather by his facion and maner ,
that he hath made his accounpte noo further to medle in your Highnes
matier , neyther with your Majestie ne against the same , but folowe
that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} doon by his legates there . Wherfor , if
my Lorde Campegius wolde promise your Majestie to geve sentence
frankely and apertely , having propitium iudicem , I wold trust , being
there with such consultacions as I shulde bringe from hense , to saye
sumwhat to this breve there , apud illos et ista est sacra anchora
Maiestatis vestre ; GARDIN,14.020.60

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for fromhens shal cum nothing but delayes ; desiring your Highnes not
to shewe this to my Lorde Campegius , ne my Lordes Grace .
GARDIN,14.020.61

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Gregory sendith presently unto your Highnes the promyse made by
the Popes Holynes concernyng your Highnes cause at such tyme as I went
to Venise for his cause . Which promyse , in the first thre wordes ,
viz. , Cum nos iusticiam eius cause perpendentes , etc. doth make
asmoch , and more , for the mayntenaunce of that $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} doon in your Highnes cause , thenne if the commission
decretal , being in Cardinal Campegius handes , shulde be shewed .
GARDIN,14.020.62

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this your Highnes shal have at your liberte to shewe to whom of
your Counsail it shal please <P_15> your Grace ; thinking , in my poore
opinion , that it wer not the best , therfore , to move the Pope in
that matier again in this adverse tyme . GARDIN,15.020.63

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I most humbly desire your Majestie that I maye be a suter to the same
for the said Master Gregory ; soo as , by your most gracious
commaundement , payment may be made there to his factours of such
diettes as your Highnes allowith him . GARDIN,15.020.64

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For omitting to speke of his true , faythful , and diligent service ,
which I have hertofore and doo nowe perceyve in him here , I assure
your Highnes he lyveth here sumptuously and chargeably , to your
Highnes honnour , and , in this gret skasete , must nedes be dryven to
extremite , oonles your Highnes be gratious lord unto him in that
behaulf . GARDIN,15.020.65

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus having noon other matier wherof privately to wryte unto your
Majestie , besides that is conteyned in our commen letters to my Lord
Legates Grace , desiring your Highnes that I maye knowe your pleasour
what to doo in case noon other thing canne be obteyned here , I shal
make an ende of these letters ; praying Almighty God to preserve your
most noble and royal astate , with a short expedition of this cause ,
according to your Highnes purpose and desire . GARDIN,15.020.66

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Rome , the xxj=th= day of Apryl . GARDIN,15.020.67

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes most humble $subget , servaunt , and dayly oratour ,
Steven Gardyner GARDIN,15.020.68

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_BENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_020:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,15.020.69

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_039> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_15>

{ED:10._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Rome,_4_May,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Majestie to be advertised that endevering ourself to
the best of our powers , al joyntely , and I myself aparte applying al
my poore wit and learnyng to atteyne at the Popes hande sumparte of the
accomplyshement of your Highnes desires , finally have nothing
prevayled ; but nowe see it called in question whither the auctorite
geven to the <P_16> legates there shulde be revoked or noo . The
circumstaunce wherof $and what hath been doon and said therin , your
Highnes shal understande by our commen letters which we have writen to
my Lorde Legates Grace ; but , to saye as I conjecture , I thinke that
matier was moved but for a stop of our other sutes , and that it is not
ernestely ment . GARDIN,16.039.70

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And albeit there is mencion of the Quene in that matier as thowe she
shuld have a proctor for the same , yet the Pope , two $dayes bifore ,
in an other communication , said that thEmperour had advertised him
howe the Quene wolde doo nothing in this matier , in suyng ne speking
to any man , for the let , delaye , or hindraunce of this matier , but
as your Highnes shal wil and commaunde her to doo ; and that thEmperour
said he wolde therfore more ernestely loke unto the cause himself .
GARDIN,16.039.71

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I merveled moch when the Pope said this , GARDIN,16.039.72

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and me thought he spake it as thought he wolde we shulde signifie the
same unto your Highnes , GARDIN,16.039.73

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I noted it the more for bicause your Highnes had commaunded me to
enquire out who shulde be here the Quenes proctour ; GARDIN,16.039.74

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it semed spoken for the nones as to put me out of doubte therof .
GARDIN,16.039.75

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But whither the Pope hath this writen out of Spayne or out of Englande
I wot not what to saye . GARDIN,16.039.76

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But it semed straunge to us to rede in Cardinal Campegius letters that
neyther he ne Campanus made , on the Popes behaulf , any promyse to
your Highnes , but oonly in general termes ; considering that upon
these special termes de plenitudine potestatis , and trust that the
Pope wolde use that in your Highnes cause , I was sent hither , like as
in my instructions $is $contayned ; which fayling , your Highnes , I
doubte not , right well remembrith howe Master Wolman , Master Bel ,
and I shewed your Highnes such thinges as wer to be required , not to
be impetrable . GARDIN,16.039.77

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My trust is that your Highnes wil accepte in good parte my true harte
and good wil , which according to my most bounden dutie shal never want
, but be holly applyed where your Highnes shal commaunde , without
respecte or regarde of any other lyving creature ; being very sory to
see your Highnes cause handled in this sorte . GARDIN,16.039.78

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But your Highnes hath soo moch vertue in youe , wherof God is to be
thanked , as may suffice to converte other mennes faultes in to goodnes
, to your Highnes gret glory , renowne , and immortal fame . Which is
al that canne be said after my poore wit herin , considering that your
Highnes hath been not wel handled , ne according to your merites , by
the Pope or sum other ; GARDIN,16.039.79

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it becomith not me to arrecte the blame certaynly <P_17> to any man .
GARDIN,17.039.80

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Pope showith Cardinal Campegius letters for his discharge ,
which thing your Highnes shall moch better judge and considre by your
high wisedom thenne I canne wryte ; most humbly desiring your Highnes
that , being in these termes with the Popes Holynes , we may knowe of
your Highnes what to doo further . GARDIN,17.039.81

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As touching the bulles to be here impetrate for your Highnes , I have
spoken with the Popes Holynes , GARDIN,17.039.82

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he is content in al poyntes to graunte as I required him , saving
in that matter de animadversione in clericos , to the which he wolde
not absolutely assent , but said he wolde with the Cardinal Sanctorum
Quatuor divise that shuld be to your Highnes satisfaction ; wishing
therin that he might graunte as easely our other peticions , which he
knowith your Highnes to have more to harte , as he may these ; adding
by and by that he wolde , for the welth of Cristendom , the Quene wer
in her grave ; GARDIN,17.039.83

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as he thought , thEmperour would be therof most glad of al ;
saying also that he thought like as thEmperour hath destroyed the
temperaltes of the Church , soo shal she be the cause of the
destruction of the spiritualties ; making exclamation of his misfortune
in $whose personne these two adversites should chaunce , and upon the
occasion of that famyle . GARDIN,17.039.84

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne we speke with him we thinke we shulde have al thing ,
GARDIN,17.039.85

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the ende his counsail denyeth al . GARDIN,17.039.86

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By reason the Cardinal Sanctorum Quatuor hath been sik ,
GARDIN,17.039.87

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is every other day sikely , GARDIN,17.039.88

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for the most parte whenne the Cardinal is hol the Pope is sik ,
GARDIN,17.039.89

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we have yet noo expedition of the saide bulles ; trusting that your
Highnes wil have consideration of these lettes accordingly .
GARDIN,17.039.90

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Praying Almighty God to preserve your most noble and royal astate .
GARDIN,17.039.91

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Rome iiij=th= daye of Maye . GARDIN,17.039.92

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes most humble subject , servaunt , and dayly oratour ,
Steven Gardyner GARDIN,17.039.93

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_039:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,17.039.94

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_040> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_22>

{ED:14._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Greenwich,_[1_August,_1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that yester night I reaported
unto the Kinges Highnes your Graces aunswer after the best facion
{after}_P I coulde , GARDIN,22.040.95

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I assure your Grace it was very wel accepted and specially in that
point : GARDIN,22.040.96

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
your Grace said ye wer mynded to have brought al to the Kinges Highnes
at the yeres ende , and that as yet ye had receyved nothing , and that
, upon declaracion of the Kinges Highnes mynde and entent , your Grace
conformed youe therunto and takith that haulf yeres rent to be due unto
his Highnes and not unto your Grace . GARDIN,22.040.97

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have spoken with my Lord of Rocheforde and shewed unto him howe your
Grace offerith to wryte your letters to such as wer your officers in
Durham , to cause them to make payment here , with al diligence , of
the haulf yeres rent due at Our Ladyes Dayes last past ; for the which
he most hertely thankith your Grace and sayth he shal requite it with
like kindnes ; saying further <P_23> unto me that bicause he wold not
be noted to have laboured for the atteyning of that haulf yeres rent
from your Grace , and that percace , besides the thing , it shulde be
displeasour to your Grace to have it soo noted , he said he coulde be
content to receyve the haulf yeres rent for that tyme at your Graces
hand , without making buysines therin for the receipt therof at your
Graces officers handes . GARDIN,23.040.98

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if your Grace thinke this latter waye good , thenne your pleasour
may be to take ordre that tomorowe summe waye be taken with my said
Lord of Rocheforde for payment of the said haulf yeres rent , which he
rekennith to amounte to the summe of MCC {ED:1200} . GARDIN,23.040.99

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if that liketh not your Grace , - for to that overture I wolde
nayther-1 saye ye nor naye , and sumwhat I doubted whither your Grace
wolde like it or noo - but not being content therwith , it maye please
youe , according to your first offre , to write the said letters and to
delyver them to this bringer , GARDIN,23.040.100

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is sent for that purpose , and the same letters to be writen
after such tenour as payment may be made of the money bifore
Barthelmewetyde . GARDIN,23.040.101

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I promised my said Lord of Rocheforde that he shuld have your Graces
letters to morowe in the mornyng ; upon trust wherof , he sendith his
owne servaunt , this berer . GARDIN,23.040.102

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sende also unto your Grace the bil , signed with the Kinges hande ,
desiring the same that it may be sealed and remitted by this messanger
. GARDIN,23.040.103

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have noon other matier to wryte unto your Grace , GARDIN,23.040.104

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but praye God to preserve youe in god helth . GARDIN,23.040.105

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Grenewich , this Sondaye in the mornyng . GARDIN,23.040.106

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sende your Grace also the Kinges gistes . GARDIN,23.040.107

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and daly bedeman , S. Gardyner
GARDIN,23.040.108

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_040:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,23.040.109

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_041> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_24>

{ED:15._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Greenwich,_1_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that synnes the writing of my
last letters , I receyved letters from Master Almoner out of Spayne ,
directed to the Kinges Highnes and your Grace . GARDIN,24.041.110

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I presented al unto his Highnes , GARDIN,24.041.111

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he wold breke up noon of your Graces , GARDIN,24.041.112

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but willed me to sende them unto your Grace with that also which is
directed unto him , conteyning , as your Grace shal perceyve , noo
matier of importaunce . GARDIN,24.041.113

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also willed me to signifie unto your Grace that he desireth
the same to shewe your favour to John Coke , your Graces registre of
Winchestre , in his sutes to your Grace . GARDIN,24.041.114

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinges Highnes , put in remembraunce by oon of his chambre , spake
unto me after this wise : GARDIN,24.041.115

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Master Stevens , oon Coke , hath sutes to my Lorde Cardinal
concerning his office and other matiers . GARDIN,24.041.116

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have oones spoken unto my Lord in it , to be good unto him ,
GARDIN,24.041.117

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I praye youe by your letters , which ye shal nowe write unto him ,
shewe him that I eftsones desire him soo to be . ' GARDIN,24.041.118

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
These wer his Highnes wordes in forma . GARDIN,24.041.119

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have noon other matier to write , GARDIN,24.041.120

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but praye God to preserve your good Grace . GARDIN,24.041.121

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Grenewich , this Sonday at night , the first day of August .
GARDIN,24.041.122

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Treasourer moved the Kinges Highnes howe your Grace is mynded to
receyve him and his trayne at the More and defraye his charges ,
wherwith his Highnes was wel content . GARDIN,24.041.123

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven $Gardyner
GARDIN,24.041.124

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_041:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,24.041.125

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_042> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_27>

{ED:17._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Waltham,_4_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that receyving your letters
yester night I shewed the continue of them and also red the same unto
the Kinges Highnes this mornyng , saving the latter parte concernyng
the letters of the King of Denmarke . GARDIN,27.042.126

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as your Grace in the secounde parte of your letter wrote howe
glad ye wolde be to receyve the Kinges Highnes at the More , at that
point his Highnes said that , synnes his determination to goo thither ,
he was advertised howe , at Rikemansworth and other townes aboute the
More , certain this yere and of late have had the swet ; the oonly name
and voyce wherof is soo terrible and fearful in his Highnes eeres that
he dare in noowise approch unto the place where it is noysed to have
been , and that therfor his Highnes will not goo thither , but in the
stede of that goo to Titennehanger , and take such chere of your Grace
there as he shulde have had at the More ; mynding , according to his
former gistes , to departe from Barnet upon Saterday cumme sevenightes
, and after dyner to goo that night to Titenhanger , and there to be
Sondaye al daye , and Monday after brekefast to departe .
GARDIN,27.042.127

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I said I thought Tytenhanger to lytel to receyve his Highnes . Wherunto
his Highnes answerd that your Grace , as he doubted not ye wolde ,
removing for the tyme with your company to Saint Albons , it shulde
serve of the while he wolde tarye there . Which resolution his Grace
willed me to signifie unto yours . GARDIN,27.042.128

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces letters to Master Strangwish wer very wel and thankefully
accepted of al parties . GARDIN,27.042.129

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other letters or newes here be noone , but that the Kinges Highnes is
mery , thanked be God ; Who preserve your Grace . GARDIN,27.042.130

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Waltham the iiij=th= day of August . GARDIN,27.042.131

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,27.042.132

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_042:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,27.042.133

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_043> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_28>

{ED:18._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Hunsdon,_6_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that this mornyng I shewed unto
the Kinges Highnes your Graces letters of answer to myn , concerning
his Highnes cummyng to Tytenhanger , which liked him very wel , and
upon occasion of the latter clause , did expedite first my Lord Dacres
byl , which I sende unto your Grace herewith . GARDIN,28.043.134

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Secondly , I spake unto his Grace for the expedition of Doctor
Remuchius , which in nowise his Highnes coulde like , that any charge
shulde be committed unto him from his Highnes , saying it was not his
hounour to seke for amitie upon the King of Denmarke .
GARDIN,28.043.135

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where I said your Grace wolde soo ordre it that sute shulde be made
from the King of Denmarke unto his Highnes , his Grace said that it
coulde never be soo compassed by Remuchius , who , being borne under
the King of Denmarkes obeisaunce , wolde not kepe secrete any thing
committed unto him here . GARDIN,28.043.136

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In conclusion , his Highnes said that summe wordes might be by your
Grace spoken unto Remuchius , and if he coulde of himself conduce the
matier soo , without any commission or instructions from hens , that
the King of Denmarke shulde make suche sute , it were wel doone .
GARDIN,28.043.137

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And other answer thenne this I had not of his Grace concerning that
matier ; saving his Highnes signed a letter , which , at my Lord of
Norfolkes desire , I made to the King of Denmarke , for spedy delyvery
of the ship of Newcastel . GARDIN,28.043.138

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching my Lorde of Worcetour , his Highnes tolde me noo special
matier , GARDIN,28.043.139

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but said it wer wel doon your Grace divised sumwhat for instructions to
be sent unto him . GARDIN,28.043.140

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes is very desirous to have the names of the borough townes
GARDIN,28.043.141

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and desireth your Grace to sende the same unto him . GARDIN,28.043.142

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have writen to Master Pexsal for them GARDIN,28.043.143

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but , as I here saye , he is not with your Grace . GARDIN,28.043.144

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As yet here hath arryved noo letters from any parte , besides those
which I sente unto your Grace out of Spayne , which is to the Kinges
Highnes gret merveyle . GARDIN,28.043.145

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
These two dayes I have been forth from morne to night ahunting , by the
Kinges Highnes commaundement . GARDIN,28.043.146

<P_29>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I praye Almighty God to preserve your good Grace .
GARDIN,29.043.147

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Hundesdon , the vj=th= day of August . GARDIN,29.043.148

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,29.043.149

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_043:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,29.043.150

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_044> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_29>

{ED:19._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Barnet,_[12_August,_1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that yesternight I shewed unto
the Kinges Highnes such resolution as your Grace hath taken with thErle
of Anguish , which liked his Grace very wel , and specially in the
maner of delyvering them such money as his Highnes geveth them for ther
entertenement ; that is to say , to be delyvered without mention of
yerely entertenement with a certain somme , as your Grace had devised ;
with that also that your Grace delyver the said money unto them there ,
bifore ther repare unto his Highnes , to thintent they maye geve
thankes unto his Grace therfor . GARDIN,29.044.151

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But to augment the portion of Archebolde that it shulde be a hundred
powndes , the Kinges Highnes $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be by me persuaded
. GARDIN,29.044.152

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace is content to sende a gentilman ; GARDIN,29.044.153

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , not resolvyng himself ne directly denying to sende the Capitain
of Barwik , thinkith Master Ratclyf a very mete personage .
GARDIN,29.044.154

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I had noo convenient laysour to speke therof at lenght .
GARDIN,29.044.155

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching the cummyng of thErle to take his leave at the Kinges
Highnes , his Grace wolde that this daye by none the said Erle shulde
repare to the towne of Barnet ; GARDIN,29.044.156

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there bayting in summe inne , which to be here appointed I have
spoken to Master Controller , GARDIN,29.044.157

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
my Lord of Norfolke shal geve knowlege unto him where he shal repare
unto the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,29.044.158

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shulde have cumme myself , GARDIN,29.044.159

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Kinges Highnes specially commaunded me to tary .
GARDIN,29.044.160

<P_30>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shewed and communicated al thing to my Lord of Norfolke , who liked
al thing very wel . GARDIN,30.044.161

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I pray Almighty God to preserve your good Grace .
GARDIN,30.044.162

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Barnet , this Thursday . GARDIN,30.044.163

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,30.044.164

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_044:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,30.044.165

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_045> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_30>

{ED:20._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_24_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that , receyving such letters as
your Grace sent unto me by your servaunt , this berer , I wolde have
shewed the same unto the Kinges Highnes incontinently , if I coulde
have had any opportunite therunto . GARDIN,30.045.166

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , being removing daye , there was noon occasion to shewe the
letters GARDIN,30.045.167

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as for the matier in them conteyned , $it hath been alredy by the
Bishops of London and of Bath reaported unto the same .
GARDIN,30.045.168

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , I thought convenient to dimisse your Graces servaunt ,
although as yet , neyther concernyng such pointes as be in your Graces
first letters ne yet these last , I knowe nothing of the Kinges
pleasour , saving that , bifore the arryval of your Graces letters ,
his Grace willed me to signifie unto yours that his mynde is ,
proclamation of the peace with such ceremonies and solempnites as have
$been doon in Fraunce , and , according to your Graces discretion , $to
be doon as soone as conveniently may be in London and Calays .
GARDIN,30.045.169

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The commyng of Langes doth holde in suspense the Kinges Highnes
resolution in al other matier , but that his Grace hath shewed me
sumwhat of his mynde for a letter to be writen to the Bishop of
Worcetour , which I have not yet made . GARDIN,30.045.170

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other matier I knowe noon worthy <P_31> advertisement ,
GARDIN,31.045.171

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but praye Almighty God to preserve your Grace . GARDIN,31.045.172

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Wodstok , the xxiiij=ti= of August . GARDIN,31.045.173

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,31.045.174

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_045:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,31.045.175

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_046> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_31>

{ED:21._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_28_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande , that forasmoch as Langes is
here arryved from the French King , with the qualifications of the
treatie of Madrel , the copy wherof the Kinges Highnes supposith to be
with youer Grace , his Grace desireth yours to sende the same unto him
with your Graces opinion upon such demaundes as the French Kinge , by
the said Langes , makith at this tyme ; the copye wherof , and al other
writinges presented unto the Kinges Highnes , I , by his Graces
commaundement , sende unto yours herwith ; advertising your Grace ,
that the Kinges Highnes , not as yet openyng any part of his mynde
eyther-4 to thambassadours or any other of his Counsail , what answer
to make in them , desirith your Grace , with al diligence possible ,
first to shewe your opinion concernyng the same , unto the knowlege
wherof he differrith his resolution in that behaulf . GARDIN,31.046.176

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes willed me also to write unto your Grace in the favour of
Frier Nicolas of Oxforde , for his capacite to be sped out of hande ,
and a benefice to be provyded for him , as sone as any $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} voyde , according to your Graces promyse , as his Highnes
sayth , in that behaulf . GARDIN,31.046.177

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It may please your Grace to remitte , by this berer , the articles of
the treaties , forasmoch as here bee noo copies of them , and the
Kinges Highnes willed me to sende them with spede . GARDIN,31.046.178

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al other matiers slepe tyl <P_32> this be answerd unto .
GARDIN,32.046.179

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I pray Almighty God to preserve your good Grace .
GARDIN,32.046.180

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wodstok , the xxviij of August . GARDIN,32.046.181

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,32.046.182

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_046:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,32.046.183

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_047> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_32>

{ED:22._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_30_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that nowe at the last the Kinges
Highnes is resolved upon the depech of my Lord of Worcetours servaunt ,
after such forme as your Grace shal perceyve by the Kinges letters
directed to the said Bishop ; which , according to the Kinges
commaundement , I sende open to your Grace to be seen by the same and
sealed there . GARDIN,32.047.184

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The tenour of them is according to the Kinges instructions in al
pointes , not soo wel expressed as your Grace shulde have doon it there
, but as in that such was the Kinges pleasour . GARDIN,32.047.185

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And glad I am that my said Lorde of Worcetours servaunt is depeched ,
oon waye or other . GARDIN,32.047.186

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinges Highnes hath rewarded the Bishoppes said servaunt with C
{ED:100} crownes , which Master Tuke hath delyvered unto him .
GARDIN,32.047.187

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching the advertisement of your Grace , sent by Master Tuke , for
making the said Bishop ambassadour to thEmperour , I thinke the Kinges
Highnes wil otherwise resolve himself ; and , at the lest , knowing
therof , and differring thexpedition of these letters from yesterday to
this daye , as to delyvere and consulte in the meane season therupon ,
this daye willed me to send forth the same , as they be , unto your
Grace , by the said Bishoppes servaunt , as afore ; GARDIN,32.047.188

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and more I knowe not in that behaulf . GARDIN,32.047.189

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinges Highnes , in goyng forth a huntyng , sodenly called me
<P_33> unto him , GARDIN,33.047.190

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and willed to write unto your Grace , for knowlege of your advise and
opinion , in these pointes folowing : GARDIN,33.047.191

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First , whether thEmperour , not ratifying the peace concluded nowe at
Cambraye with the French King , the Kinges Highnes shuld demaunde and
take the ratification of the peace concluded with him .
GARDIN,33.047.192

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , whether , the said ratificacions not yet passed , it wer
convenient for the Kinges Highnes to delyver thEmperours bondes , and
to geve acquitaunces of the same to the French King , and soo doo an
acte in discharge of thEmperour , the peace concluded not yet brought
to effecte , ne by delyveraunce of the childern put in execution ;
which fayling , of necessite the wer shuld retourne . GARDIN,33.047.193

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinges Highnes oonly proponed these questions , without debating or
reasonyng the same , GARDIN,33.047.194

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and desirith moch to knowe your Graces advise and counsail ; and that
it may please the same to sende hither such treaties as wer concluded
in Fraunce when your Grace was there , with that also which was nowe
concluded at Cambray and brought to your Grace by my Lord of London .
GARDIN,33.047.195

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This mornyng , upon point of the Kinges going forth , which was very
erly and afore he hath at other tymes accustumed , arryved here , from
your Grace , Master Doctour Boner , with your Graces mynde and opinion
upon such articles as , by the Kinges commaundement , I wrote of unto
the same in my last letters ; wherin me semith your Grace hath taken
very excessive paynes and labours , with gret study and buysnes of
mynde , to depech so moch matier by writing and instructions in soo
lytel tyme ; which I shal extende and set forth to the Kinges Highnes ,
as my dutie and observaunce towardes your Grace requirith .
GARDIN,33.047.196

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , for spedy speking with the King , and to speke at laysour
, I reckonne gret difficulte ; GARDIN,33.047.197

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as for this night , I am ought of hope , by reason the Kinges
Highnes is out on hunting , and usith , as your Grace knowith , to
cumme in very late ; GARDIN,33.047.198

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I shal doo therin the best I can , and sende your Grace answer by
the said Master Boner . Unto which tyme I shal noo further molest the
same , but pray Almighty God to preserve your good Grace .
GARDIN,33.047.199

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wodstok , the penultime of August . GARDIN,33.047.200

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,33.047.201

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_047:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,33.047.202

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_048> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_34>

{ED:23._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_31_August,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that the Kinges Highnes willed me
, on his behaulf , to geve unto your Grace his most harty thankes for
your gret paynes and labours taken in answeryng , with such diligence ,
to the articles proponed by the French oratours , wherin his Highnes
thinkith your Grace hath considered asmoch as coulde be excogitate and
imagined ; GARDIN,34.048.203

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what resolution his Grace wil take in the same , I knowe not as yet
, GARDIN,34.048.204

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he hath put it over with thambassadours untyl his retourne from
Langle , whither he goth tomorowe , GARDIN,34.048.205

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and retournith not bifore Saturday {ED:4_Sept.} . GARDIN,34.048.206

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As in that parte of your Graces instructions where your Grace semeth to
suspecte sumwhat of the French men , and impute unto them the not
observation of ther convenauntes agred upon at Amyas , towching the
qualification of the treatie of Madryl , the Kinges Highnes , moch
moved therwith , and , adhering to your Graces opinion in that behaulf
, was moch kindled GARDIN,34.048.207

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and waxed warme GARDIN,34.048.208

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thought himself not wel handled by them ; in such sorte as , not
speking with me , that evenyng willed my <em> Lorde of </em> Rocheforde
to sende for me and to examine the treatie of Madryl with your Graces
instructions ; which we dyd , and this mornyng had moch reasonyng with
his Highnes in that behaulf . GARDIN,34.048.209

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , at the laste it appered unto his Highnes , the treatie of
Madryl , without that qualification divised by your Grace , not to be
soo daungerous , as your Grace had noted it , in al poyntes ; as Master
Boner shal shewe unto your Grace ; GARDIN,34.048.210

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
most humbly desiring your Grace to considre it with this also , quod
preterita dolere magis quam corrigete possumus , and that , in very
dede , your Graces qualification , to saye truly to your Grace , doth
noo more serve the Kinges purpose thenne as the treatie is nowe cowched
. GARDIN,34.048.211

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus bolde I am to write unto your Grace thus playnly , desiring the
same to take it in good parte . GARDIN,34.048.212

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The specialtes of al other pointes <P_35> I have shewed to Master Boner
. GARDIN,35.048.213

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Praying Almighty God to preserve your good Grace . GARDIN,35.048.214

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Wodstok , the last day of August . GARDIN,35.048.215

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,35.048.216

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_048:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lorde Legates good Grace . GARDIN,35.048.217

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_049> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_35>

{ED:24._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_3_September,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that I have receyved of Master
Edwardes such treaties as it was the Kinges pleasour I shuld sende for
unto your Grace , which , after the Kinges Highnes hath seen them , I
shal not fayle to remitte unto your Grace accordingly . And as towching
your Graces letters which I receyved by the said Master Edwardes , the
Kinges Highnes not being here and I by his Graces commaundement now
reparing unto the same , canne neyther wryte any resolution to your
Grace of the latter parte of your Graces said letters ne , at soo good
lenght as {at}_P I wold , answer to the first parte of the same .
GARDIN,35.049.218

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles my trust is that your Grace , howe soever your Graces
opinion in interpretacion of the treatie of Madryl can be defended or
otherwise , wil not therin judge otherwise of me , as I perceyve by
your Graces letters ye doon not , quam ut boni viri officio functus
videar contradicendo , GARDIN,35.049.219

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and doon therin my dutie both-1 towardes the Kinges Highnes and also
your Grace , who I wel knowe moch tendrith the conservation of the
amitie of Fraunce tanquam opus manuum vestrarum multa laude et gloria
dignum ; GARDIN,35.049.220

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , if your Grace had been here and seen howe the Kinges Highnes toke
it , wold rather have studied howe by summe benigne interpretacion to
have made the best of that which is past remedye thenne to have
persisted in the blamyng of not observation of convenauntes on the
French partie ; upon which , if men shulde nowe <P_36> stike and
narowly serch , I doubte not but there be many other poyntes wherin it
may be objected unto them that they have not clerely folowed there
pactes and convenauntes GARDIN,36.049.221

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
et hoc quam foret nunc intempestivum , your Grace of your high wisedom
canne wel consider . GARDIN,36.049.222

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And they , being of noo moore importaunce thenne is the omission of
that qualificacion your Grace had provided for the first article of the
treatie of Madryl , shuld not gretly be prejudicial unto the Kinges
Highnes . GARDIN,36.049.223

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For suerly , Sir , as it is thought here , the clause of amici amicorum
and inimici inimicorum extendith noo further thenne I did write unto
your Grace , GARDIN,36.049.224

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo it was answerd unto Master Chauncelour of the Duchie nowe at
Cambraye by the Chauncelour of Fraunce , as he hath here shewed unto
the Kinges Counsail . GARDIN,36.049.225

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus having noo more laysour to write unto your Grace , I pray God
preserve the same . GARDIN,36.049.226

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Wodstok the iij=de= day of Septembre . GARDIN,36.049.227

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,36.049.228

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_049:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,36.049.229

<Q_GAR_A_1529_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_051> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_38>

{ED:26._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woodstock,_7_September,_[1529]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Grace to understande that the Kinges Highnes <paren>
like as his Grace willed to write unto yours </paren> , ensuyng partely
such advise as your Grace wrote unto him , and partely his owne opinion
, and other of his Counsail , hath geven answer to Monsieur de Langes
upon such articles as wer by him , on the French Kinges behaulf ,
proponed unto his Highnes ; the copy of which answer geven unto him by
wryting and , by the Kinges commaundement , subscribed with my hande ,
I sende unto your Grace , according to the Kinges pleasour , herwith ;
adding in the margyne tottes , wherby your Grace may perceyve omne
consilium rei geste , to thintent that the French $ambassadours
resortyng to your Grace , and communicating ther depech unto the same ,
as the Kinges Highnes hath willed them to doo , your Grace might say to
them conformably to that hath been spoken here ; like as the Kinges
Highnes desirith your Grace to doo . GARDIN,38.051.230

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in cace the said ambassadours shal speke unto your Grace for
obteyning of the Kinges Highnes a letter to be writen by his Grace to
the French King , of like tenour to that which the French King sent by
the Duke of Suffolke , wherin these ambassadours have alredy pressed
the Kinges Highnes , and with good wordes be put over , the Kinges
Highnes desirith your Grace soo to answer them with such facion and
wordes , as your Graces high wisedom canne wel divise , as may be to
ther satisfaction ; and over that to saye to them <P_39> that ,
considering the Kinges frank liberalite , ultro et sponte shewed , it
wer not convenient further to presse him . GARDIN,39.051.231

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesternight I red unto the Kinges Highnes your Graces letters , in
answer to myne , concernyng thexecution of the letters citatorial ; who
willed me to write unto your Grace that he giveth unto your Grace his
most harty thankes for your labours and paynes taken in that behaulf ,
and desirith moch to knowe the further resolution in that matier .
GARDIN,39.051.232

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where your Grace writeth of the delyveraunce of Cardinal Campegius
letters , and bryves to him directed , I assure your Grace there camme
never noo such to my handes . GARDIN,39.051.233

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesterday here arryved letters from Rome , summe directed to the Kinges
Highnes , summe to your Grace and to me and other . GARDIN,39.051.234

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By $allightlywode they wer broken up by the waye , out of the
pacquettes , GARDIN,39.051.235

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but nevertheles the letters wer not opened ; GARDIN,39.051.236

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Kinges Highnes , being desirous to knowe newes , opened al ,
GARDIN,39.051.237

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bicause they be moch in cifre , his Highnes desirith your Grace
that they may be disciphred there and remitted hither again .
GARDIN,39.051.238

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kinges Highnes willed me also to write unto your Grace that , being
sute made unto him in favor of the Prior of Reding , who , for Luthers
opinion , is nowe in prison , and hath been a good season , at your
Graces commaundement , that oonles the matier be moch notable and very
heynos , he desirith your Grace , at his request , to cause the said
Priour to be restord to liberte and disharged of that imprisonment .
GARDIN,39.051.239

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other matier I have noon to write unto your Grace at this tyme ,
GARDIN,39.051.240

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but pray Almighty God to preserve your good Grace . GARDIN,39.051.241

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wodstok , the vij=th= day of Septembre . GARDIN,39.051.242

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The ambassadours of Fraunce have taken ther leave of the King ,
GARDIN,39.051.243

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and be on ther waye towardes your Grace . GARDIN,39.051.244

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Graces most humble and dayly bedeman , Steven Gardyner
GARDIN,39.051.245

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:32?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:24
LETTER:GARDIN_051:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my Lord Legates good Grace . GARDIN,39.051.246

<Q_GAR_A_1532_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_052> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_45>

{ED:33._TO_BENET}

{ED:Rouen,_27_January,_[1532]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Doctor , in my most harty maner I commende me unto youe .
GARDIN,45.052.247

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as concernyng the charge of this bringer , Master Boner , being
sent by the Kinges Highnes and commaunded to communicate al unto youe ,
I shal not nede to wryte any specialte , GARDIN,45.052.248

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} adde or take away to that I have said and
wryten in tymes past , which ye knowe welynowe . GARDIN,45.052.249

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet the Kinges Highnes willed this berer to repaire by me to be
instructe by me howe to use himself there , with whom , I doubte not ,
ye and Master Doctor Kerne canne and wil doo al that is possible to be
doon , and use everything soo as may be most beneficial to the Kinges
purpose , according to such instructions as ye shal have from the same
. GARDIN,45.052.250

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord of Suffolk hath wryten unto me for his dispensation , whose
letters I sende unto youe herwith , GARDIN,45.052.251

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I praye youe , good Master Doctor , helpe to the expedition therof
, as moch as ye may . GARDIN,45.052.252

<P_46>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,46.052.253

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Roone , the xxvij=th= day of January . GARDIN,46.052.254

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray youe recommende me to Master Doctor Kerne . GARDIN,46.052.255

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,46.052.256

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_052:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Master Doctor Benet , the
Kinges ambassadour at Rome . GARDIN,46.052.257

<Q_GAR_A_1532_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_053> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_46>

{ED:34._TO_BENET}

{ED:Rouen,_19_February,_with_postscript,_22_February,_[1532]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Gentyle Master Doctor , after my most harty commendations : Ye shal
receyve herwith a pacquet of letters from the Kinges Highnes addressed
to youe and your colleges , the chief point wherof consisteth in
answering the matier of the Turkes , which me thinkith is nowe waxed
colde and shal waxe colder , if Ferdinand and Vayuoda agree , as it is
$for $truth tolde here howe they both have compromised ther titles in
to the arbitrement of the King of Pole , insomoch as Vayuodas factour
hath obteyned of the King our master letters to the King of Poole in
that behaulf . GARDIN,46.053.258

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If your letters cumme late , ye must considre they cumme from the
French Courte , where the Popes ambassadour hath oones disapointed me ,
GARDIN,46.053.259

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and other say ever they depech currers tomorowe , which summe cal
tomowe . GARDIN,46.053.260

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Out of England be noo newes . GARDIN,46.053.261

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I departe hens tomorowe , soo as I might have taryed at home .
GARDIN,46.053.262

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here hath been marvelous gret triumphes in receyving this Quene .
GARDIN,46.053.263

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your letters have been going hens thiese viij=th= dayes ,
GARDIN,46.053.264

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet I wryte thiese unassured of a post , otherwise than that he
goth tomorowe i. <em> e. </em> , tantost , GARDIN,46.053.265

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo I leve my letters open . GARDIN,46.053.266

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryten the xix day of February . GARDIN,46.053.267

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The $?.... day arryved here Francisco , GARDIN,46.053.268

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet I am not goon , GARDIN,46.053.269

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I goo tomorowe , of the English facion . GARDIN,46.053.270

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , Sir , I thanke youe for <P_47> your cassia phistola .
GARDIN,47.053.271

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , for the abbey , I shal speke and doo the bes I canne to spede .
GARDIN,47.053.272

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As I shal spede , ye $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} advertised from England ,
with more hast thenne hens . GARDIN,47.053.273

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sory of your evel jornay GARDIN,47.053.274

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am in any thing holly yours , GARDIN,47.053.275

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo ye shal finde in dede . GARDIN,47.053.276

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe to recommende me to Master Kerne and shewe him I have sent
in to England letters arryved here from him . GARDIN,47.053.277

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,47.053.278

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Roone , the xxij day of February . GARDIN,47.053.279

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,47.053.280

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_053:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wurshipfull Master Doctour Benet , the
Kinges ambassatour at Rome . GARDIN,47.053.281

<Q_GAR_A_1532_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_055> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_47>

{ED:35._TO_BENET}

{ED:London,_11_May,_[1532]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Benet , aftre my moost harty commendacions , thise $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} moost instantly to desire and pray youe to obteyne with
al diligence possible a dispensacion for my Lord of Sussex and the Lady
Margaret Stanley , according to suche instruction as ye shal receyve in
a bill herin enclosed . Wherin also , for thexpedicion of this matier ,
ye shal receyve a bill of exchaunge of the somme of two hundreth
ducattes ; hartly eftsones desiring youe with suche diligence to
procure thexpedicion of this matier , as the same may be sent by the
next currour . GARDIN,47.055.282

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in cace the chargies therof shall excede the said som of CC
{ED:200} ducattes , I beseche youe to see it contented ,
GARDIN,47.055.283

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shal see youe agayne repaid therof . GARDIN,47.055.284

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus fare youe aswel as your good harte canne thinke .
GARDIN,47.055.285

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London , the xj=th= of May . GARDIN,47.055.286

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have taken upon me to wryte in this matier , GARDIN,47.055.287

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor I hartely praye youe it may be sped and sent with asmoch
haste as {with}_P may <P_48> be possible . GARDIN,48.055.288

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have conferred your benefice to your chapelen , and removed al
controversy which was moved by gret men . GARDIN,48.055.289

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,48.055.290

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:27
LETTER:GARDIN_055:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my loving frende Master Doctour Benet , the Kinges
Highnes ambassadour in the Courte of Rome . GARDIN,48.055.291

<Q_GAR_A_1532_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_022> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_48>

{ED:36._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Esher,_c._15_May,_1532}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My dutie remembred to your Majestie , with al lowly humilite and
reverent honnour : Forasmoch as letted by disease of body I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} personally repare to your Highnes presens , having harde
of your Graces Almoner , to my gret discounforte , what opinion your
Highnes hath conceyved of me , I am compelled by thiese letters to
represent me unto the same ; lamenting and wayling my chaunce and
fortune to have lost , besides my desertes , asmoch reputacion in your
Graces harte as your Highnes , without my merites , hath conferred unto
me in estimacion of the worlde . GARDIN,48.022.292

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if I counforted not myself with remembraunce of your Graces goodnes
, with whom veritas semper vincit , et sortis tederet et vite . I knowe
in myself , and canne never forget your Graces benefites , your Highnes
notable affection towardes me . GARDIN,48.022.293

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I knowe my dutie and bonde to your Highnes . GARDIN,48.022.294

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howmoch I desire to declare in outwarde dedes myn inwarde knowlege ,
God knoweth , GARDIN,48.022.295

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I trust your <P_49> Highnes shal knowe ; GARDIN,49.022.296

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but in the meane tyme , for want therof , thus I suffer ,
GARDIN,49.022.297

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and knowe noo remedye but your Highnes goodnes to expende what I have
doon , what I shulde have doon , and what I maye doo , and not to be
miscontent , thowe in correcting of the answer made , I beleved , soo
gret a numbre of learned men affirmyng it soo precisely to be true ,
that was in the answer alleged concerning Goddes lawe ; specially
considering your Highnes booke against Luther , in myn understanding ,
most playnly approvith it ; the boke wryten in your Graces cause , and
translate in to English , semeth to allowe it ; and the Counsail of
Constance , condempning the articles of Wyclef , manifestly decreeth it
. The contrary wherof , if your Grace canne nowe prove , yet I , not
lerned in divinite , ne knowing any parte of your Graces proves , am ,
I trust , without cause of blame in that bihaulf . GARDIN,49.022.298

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne I knowe that I knewe not , I shal thenne speke theraftre .
GARDIN,49.022.299

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It were pitie we lyved if , soo litel expressing our love to God in our
deades , we shuld abuse His name and auctorite to your Highnes
displeasour , of whom we have receyved soo many benefites .
GARDIN,49.022.300

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On the other parte , if it be Goddes auctorite to us alotted , thowe we
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} use it condignely , yet we $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} geve it awaye ; GARDIN,49.022.301

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it is noo lesse daungier to the receyvour thenne to the gever , as
your Highnes of your high wisedom canne consider . GARDIN,49.022.302

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am , for my parte , as I am bounde , most desirous not oonly to doo
what maye be doon to your Highnes contentacion , but also applyable to
lerne the truth what ought to be doon ; trusting your Majestie wyl
finally take in good parte that I thinke that truth , for which I have
soo good groundes and auctorites , untyl I heve stronger groundes and
reasons to the contrary . GARDIN,49.022.303

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shal most gladly conferre with any of your Graces Counsail in this
matter , GARDIN,49.022.304

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_022:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane tyme I dayly praye to God for knowlege of His truth ,
and the preservation of your Majestie in moch felicite , alway most
redy and desirous to doo as becommith Your most humble subget , most
bounden chapelen , and dayly bedeman , Ste. $Winton GARDIN,49.022.305

<Q_GAR_A_1532_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_023> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_50>

{ED:37._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Esher,_30_June,_[1532]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Cromwel , after my most harty commendations : Being advertised
by letters from Master Paulet , Controller of the Kinges House , howe
it wer expedient for me to be at a point with the Kinges Highnes for my
temperaltes , I have thought good by these my letters to remembre youe
therof and to desire youe that , considering at my last communicacion
with youe in that matier I remitted al to the Kinges pleasour , an
executour wherof ye be in that behaulf , that ye wil doo for me as ye
maye doo for your frende , and procure such an ende as I may be able to
perfourme . GARDIN,50.023.306

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And other respecte have I not to the quantite of the summe , as I
thenne tolde youe ; GARDIN,50.023.307

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , though I am of the same molde other be of , a man etc. , yet I
promyse youe , I use noo colour herin . GARDIN,50.023.308

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Truth it is , I wolde be glad to paye nothing , if it were remitted
unto me , GARDIN,50.023.309

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the lesse I pay , the better content , GARDIN,50.023.310

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
soo I pay that the Kinges Highnes is pleased with . GARDIN,50.023.311

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I am in that state by his goodnes and without myn asking or
desertes that , as far as my power wyl extend , I shal with noo lesse
good wil paye it unto his Highnes thenne {with}_P I receyve it of other
. Wherfor nowe al is in your handes . GARDIN,50.023.312

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The delaye of myn ende dependith oonly upon youe ; in concluding wherof
I praye youe remembre that I receyve lesse of the bishoprich of
Winchestre by xiij=c= {ED:1300} <font> li. </font> yerely thenne Bishop
Fox did , and owe twyes asmoch as he was worth whenne he dyed , if his
inventary wer true , besides thimplementes of the bishoprich , which
importith a gret charge , GARDIN,50.023.313

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I finde in noo place a panne . GARDIN,50.023.314

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I praye youe , good Master Cromwel , determyne youe thende for my
parte , as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} agreable with the Kinges pleasour ,
in such wise as I shulde not seme to hucke of or stike to paye my dutie
; GARDIN,50.023.315

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I promyse youe , I meane not soo . GARDIN,50.023.316

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold I coulde expresse my meanyng always , eyther-1 in wordes or
deades or both . GARDIN,50.023.317

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Truth is called tymes doughter . GARDIN,50.023.318

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tyme wil have childe at the last , GARDIN,50.023.319

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it is long first . GARDIN,50.023.320

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold , for my parte , tymes delyveraunce wer as spedy in childing of
<P_51> truth as conyes be , that bring forth every moneth .
GARDIN,51.023.321

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God may soo ordre it whenne Him please , Who oonly canne , and , I
trust , wyl ; without Whom it is but foly to hope of amendement of
tymes defaulte . For which I shal praye , and your welfare and
prosperyte . GARDIN,51.023.322

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Asher , the last day of June . GARDIN,51.023.323

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your loving and assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,51.023.324

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:35?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:47?
LETTER:GARDIN_023:E1:1532:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Master Thomas Cromwel , oon of
the Kinges most honnorable Counsail . GARDIN,51.023.325

<Q_GAR_A_1534_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_025> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_55>

{ED:41._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Farnham,_26_April,_[1534]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Cromwell , after my most harty commendations : This evenyng at
ix of the clok I receyved your letters , GARDIN,55.025.326

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and incontinently determyned to make such answer unto the same as
wherwith your especial advertisement with your owne hand , which , as I
ought to doo , I take very frendly , might be satisfied , to the
contentacion of the Kinges Highnes , our soverain lord ; for whose
purpose ye labour as becommith youe , GARDIN,55.025.327

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I , for my parte , ought not to be behinde . Wherfor myn answer
therin ye shal perceyve by the subscription . GARDIN,55.025.328

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching Canabe , thus moch I knowe , that it hath been declared to
the Kinges Highnes as lande debatable by thre maner of evidences :
GARDIN,55.025.329

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
first , by the depositions of a good nombre of olde men examined by the
Lord Dacres and other ; secondly , by an old wryting founde among the
evidences of the Lord Dacres , declaring the particion of certain
baroneyes which wer left debatable ; and thirdely , by a plat drawen
and made of the situacion of Canabie , wherby it shuld $appere that it
is within the limites of debatable grounde . GARDIN,55.025.330

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this is al that I knowe therin that makith for the Kinges partie ;
not dowting but the Scottes wyl tel youe asmoch as makith for them and
more too . GARDIN,55.025.331

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have caused also my chapelen , Master Runcourne , to subscribe his
name to the conclusion , as ye shal perceyve by $the same .
GARDIN,55.025.332

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,55.025.333

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Farneham , the xxvj day of Aprile . GARDIN,55.025.334

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your owne assured frende , <em> Ste. Winton </em> GARDIN,55.025.335

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_025:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the right worshipful Master Thomas Cromwel ,
Principal Secretary to the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,55.025.336

<Q_GAR_A_1534_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_026> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_57>

{ED:43._TO_LADY_LISLE}

{ED:London,_20_June,_[1534]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , after my most harty commendations : Knowing howe effectually
your Ladiship is accustumed to sollicite your frendes cause , and
nothing doubting of your special love and frendship towardes me , I am
soo bold to recommend this wedows cause , berer herof , unto your good
Ladiship , hartely desiring and praying youe to regarde it as it wer
myn owne . GARDIN,57.026.337

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wryte neyther to my good Lord , your husbond , unto whom , I besech
youe , make my most harty commendations , ne to any other herin ,
knowing that your Ladiship maye stande in stede sufficient in this
matier , wherin is oonly required justice at the Marshalles hande ;
which , by your good meanes , I knowe wel $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
atteyned . Wherby your Ladiship shal binde me more and more to doo that
shal lye in my litel power in any such matier of your frendes as shal
occurre here . GARDIN,57.026.338

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus , my good Lady , most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,57.026.339

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London , the xx=ti= day of June . GARDIN,57.026.340

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Ladishippes to my litel power , Ste. Winton GARDIN,57.026.341

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_026:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my singuler good Lady , my Lady Lisle .
GARDIN,57.026.342

<Q_GAR_A_1534_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_027> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_60>

{ED:45._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Waltham,_6_July,_[1534]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : The good
successe of my poore affayres hath been , by your frendly handeling ,
soo prosperous and pleasaunte unto me , and the continuaunce of your
amitie soo ferme and stable , that in such matiers as bringe me in
doubte and perplexite of mynde , I always thinke ye may best and , as I
veryly trust , wyl redyest procure , as ye have doon in other like
cases , my convenient resolution in the same . GARDIN,60.027.343

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I here of certainte that the Kinges Highnes hath appointed a parte of
his Graces progresse to Guyldeford , which is within my diocese and
where I thinke it my dutie , as other ar accustumed to doo , to wayte
and geve attendaunce upon his Majestie for declaration of my due
observaunce towardes the same . GARDIN,60.027.344

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I here also , but not soo certaynly , that the Kinges Highnes entendith
incontinently therupon to passe the sees ; which , if it be true ,
thenne somoch the more wer it my duetie to present myself , as every
good subget shuld , to his Majestie , with offre of that I have within
me or without me , to doo my due service unto his Highnes .
GARDIN,60.027.345

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I knowe what I shuld doo , which I wold most gladly doo ;
GARDIN,60.027.346

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but knowing by experience that tyme , opportunite , and the maner of
doing workith asmoch and sumtyme more to the acceptacion of that is
doon , thowe it be <em> wel doon , thenne </em> the thing itself , I am
in noo litel perplexite of mynde howe to use myself . GARDIN,60.027.347

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sumtyme it cummyth in my mynde to make sute that it maye please the
Kinges Highnes to take his pastyme in my poore house at Farneham , in
which place I might have good opportunite to doo that I wold <P_61> doo
by myn owne mouth . GARDIN,61.027.348

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I camme to Guldeforde not knowing first the Kinges Highnes pleasour
, for what soever purpose {for}_P I did it , it might percace not be
wel taken , considering the journey is appointed for recreation .
GARDIN,61.027.349

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In effecte , Master Cromwel , I meane that I wold , as I have
heretofore wryten unto youe , abstiner <em> e </em> ab omni specie mala
, and in al occasions $shewe myself soo as I might appere a true
subjecte and a faythful servaunt , glad to accomplish my princes
pleasour and most glad if I wer thought mete to attende upon hym in
such cace as his $Highnes shuld departe his realme . GARDIN,61.027.350

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , I maye not be soo delicate as to chose the place of
service , GARDIN,61.027.351

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but am and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} redy to doo service as I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} commaunded . GARDIN,61.027.352

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is myn harte , Master Crumwel ; for my convenient openyng and
declaration wherof , at what tyme , and by what meane , I have nowe
recourse unto youe as to myn especial frende , and desire your counsail
, what I shal doo : whither to make request for the Kinges Highnes
cummyng to Farneham , myself to cumme to Guldeford , or elles otherwise
what to doo and howe to use myself in the premises . GARDIN,61.027.353

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Doo herin , good Master Secretary , as ye have doon for me in other
caces ; GARDIN,61.027.354

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for in your resolution shal I acquiete myself , as I have doon in the
matier bitwen Master Cooke and me , wherin , like as to my gret
counforte , ye have obteyned that , with the Kinges Highnes good
contentacion , my declaration $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} favorably harde
; soo nowe myn instaunte sute is that it may be shortly harde , wherby
myn innocentie may shortly and playnly appere in such matiers as Master
Coke hath charged me with towardes my prince . GARDIN,61.027.355

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al other matiers I forgeve Cooke , and that alsoo , soo it be first
knowen what grounde and truth it hath . GARDIN,61.027.356

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus amonges other your gret matiers , I trouble youe with myn ,
GARDIN,61.027.357

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I shal saye to youe as a poore man said oones to my Lord of Norfolk
in like cace . GARDIN,61.027.358

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' My smal matier , ' quod he , ' is the grettest matier that I have . '
GARDIN,61.027.359

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray youe , good Master Secretary , that I may shortly here fro youe
your answer herunto . GARDIN,61.027.360

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And most hartely fare youe wel . GARDIN,61.027.361

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Waltham , the vj=th= day of July . GARDIN,61.027.362

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,61.027.363

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:GARDIN_027:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wurshipfull Maister Secretary .
GARDIN,61.027.364

<Q_GAR_A_1535_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_028> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_62>

{ED:47._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Wolvesey_[at_Winchester],_25_March,_[1535]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty $commendations : Having receyved
your letters for $delyvery of such $bondes as wer in my keping of the
$goodes of the late parson of Compton , unto whom Master $Doctor Incent
is executour , I hartely desire and praye youe to <P_63> be content
that , being nowe the chief cause of not delyvery at this instaunte
tyme , bicause I have not the money soo redy as I might with myn ease
departe therwith , ye wil in the meane tyme of delaye ordre the matier
ther soo as Master Incent , who is executour and to whose use I have
kept it hitherto , may utterly disharge me therof ; as I $doubte not
but he wil , and , as he sayth , shewe hymself glad that , the dedes
{ED:i.e.,_dead's} wyl otherwise fulfilled , such porcion as was
appointed to the Observauntes $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} disposed $at the
<em> Kinges Majesties </em> pleasour . GARDIN,63.028.365

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the meane tyme I shal provide for furnitour of repayment of that
money such as I toke in to <em> my handes </em> , partely to kepe $it
sure and partely to ease myself for the tyme . GARDIN,63.028.366

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,63.028.367

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Wolsey , upon Our Ladyes Day . GARDIN,63.028.368

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,63.028.369

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_028:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Master Thomas Cromwel ,
Principal Secretary to the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,63.028.370

<Q_GAR_A_1535_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_029> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_63>

{ED:48._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Marwel,_2_May,_[1535]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : Forasmoch as I
send up at this tyme by my servaunt , this berer , the certificat of
that hath been doon by me and other , to whom the Kinges Highnes
directed his Graces letters of commission concernyng the valuation of
the spiritualte <P_64> in this countie , I have thought good to sende
the same first unto youe , and to desire your jugement nowe in the
perfection , as I required your advice in myn entre and begynnyng
therof . GARDIN,64.029.371

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For if any thing be otherwise thenne it shulde be , it maye and $shal
$be {TEXT:shalbe} easely amended . GARDIN,64.029.372

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I assure youe there hath neyther-1 wanted good wyl ne diligence ;
GARDIN,64.029.373

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dividing the charge committed unto us in two partes , whereof the
oon was , to knowe the true value , the other , to graunte allocations
and deductions ; as I dare afferme that in the firste parte noo
defaulte $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} founde , but that every promotion is
extended to the uttermost , soo have we in the deductions and
allocations folowed , in our jugementes , as our dutie is , the wordes
of our instructions ; not regarding any such reasons as hath been made
upon the wordes of the acte , being much more favorable , as they said
, thenne we have shewed ourself in that bihaulf . Wherof , by the
advice of the rest of my colleges , I have made an entitulacion , which
I sende unto youe to be wayed as ye shal thinke good .
GARDIN,64.029.374

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The title of ' Almes , ' althowe in our jugement we understande it ,
and have made allocations therafter , in the finding and nurishing of
old , impotent , and lame men ; yet we have not soo demed it in the
finding of yong childern to scole ; GARDIN,64.029.375

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet is it soo called alsoo , as the other is , ' almes . '
GARDIN,64.029.376

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We used herein a distinction of ' fynding ' ; which in pore and
impotent men is without other shift necessary to lyve by ,
GARDIN,64.029.377

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in childern noo such necessite to finde them to scole .
GARDIN,64.029.378

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally , we satisfied them and ourself also with this resolution :
that albeit our certificate in thextentes of ther londes , if we made
the summe more thenne we founde , it might greve them - whereof we wold
take hede and doo uprightly - yet in the allowaunces we coulde
neyther-4 doo good ne harme to them . GARDIN,64.029.379

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For if we allowed further thenne we had commission , it wold be
controlled there , with our rebuke ; GARDIN,64.029.380

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if we allowed to lytel , the remedy laye open to be sued for , if
they thought good . GARDIN,64.029.381

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have past over al thing quietly , without any miscontentement shewed
by any partie , and without any other sute thenne as shal be thought
agreable to the statute made in that bihaulf . GARDIN,64.029.382

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shall see in the valuation of my bishoprich a goodly portion ; but
wherof I shal not receyve nowe very litel above the oon haulf to myne
owne use . GARDIN,64.029.383

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am in summe mennes jugementes to strayte in charging myself ;
GARDIN,64.029.384

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wyl have myn owne wyl therin , that I may be called self willed
for sumwhat . GARDIN,64.029.385

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am bolde to trouble youe with my long letters , in which I talke with
youe as I wer present familierly . GARDIN,64.029.386

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My servaunt <P_65> shal shewe youe the bookes ; and further doo as ye
shal commande him . GARDIN,65.029.387

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hartly fare ye wel . GARDIN,65.029.388

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Marwel , the ij=de= day of Maye . GARDIN,65.029.389

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,65.029.390

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Articles wherein the commissioners have not shewed such favour to the
parties in ther allowaunces as they pretended bifore them due by the
acte of Parlement in that bihaulf : GARDIN,65.029.391

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First , where as diverse benefices , as apperyth by the particuler
bookes , have summe oon , summe two , and summe thre chapelles ,
besides the parish church ; in which chapelles they be bounde to finde
prestes ; albeit the commissioners in the valuacion have estemed al
such proufytes as arryse and growe in any of the said chapelles , yet
they have allowed noo deduction of the prestes charge , who is
necessary and perpetual , servyng in that chapel . GARDIN,65.029.392

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , it hath been alleged that such chaunteryes as be not perpetually
assigned to any spiritual man , shuld not be charged by this acte of
Parlament , specially where there growith noo profyte to the incumbent
by any spiritual revenue , and that the incumbent may be removed at
pleasour . GARDIN,65.029.393

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this case is alleged in the chapel of the Holy Gost , in the Isle
of Wight , and the chauntery of Ticheborn , in the deanry of Alresford
. GARDIN,65.029.394

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_029:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , it hath been alleged , that considering the acte makith mencion
of al almesse to be allowed , geven by foundacion , that the fynding of
the poore chyldern in the Newe College , besides Winchestre , ought
also to be deducted , being ther portion soo litel as it $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} be lesse . In which matiers , albeit the commissioners
have , with the best reasons {with}_P they coulde , defended ther owne
doyng in execution of the Kinges Highnes instructions according to the
said acte , yet finally they promysed to make relation of ther sute ,
to be remedyed by mercy , if it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} soo thought
convenient . GARDIN,65.029.395

<Q_GAR_A_1535_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_033> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_66>

{ED:49._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Waltham,_10_June,_[1535]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : Albeit in my
last letters to youe , sent with my letters of answer to the Kinges
Highnes , I desired of youe to have knowlege thence , howe my Lord of
London proceded there in thexecution of the Kinges Highnes
commaundement , which was , as I thinke , of oon tenour to us both ;
yet nowe doubting lest your greate buysines might differre the answer
therof lenger thenne I wold it shuld , I have , of myn owne hed , made
oute commaundementes thorowe out al my diocesse , of such tenour as my
servaunte , this berer , shal shewe youe ; in which I thinke I have
satisfied theffecte of the Kinges Highnes letters to me directed for
somoch . Wherunto if ye thinke any thing to be added in that matier ,
it may soone be supplied . GARDIN,66.033.396

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As touching childern , I have delyvered thiese verses , herin inclosed
, to be lerned , to the scolers of Winchestre ; GARDIN,66.033.397

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to other pety teachers I geve commaundement in general .
GARDIN,66.033.398

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is doon onward , GARDIN,66.033.399

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and more $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} , if ye thinke necessary ; wherof I
praye youe take the payne to advertise me . GARDIN,66.033.400

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And althowe , as I have devised the wordes to be spoken , I preache the
matier upon Sonday next in every mannes mouth , yet wyl I prech also ,
omitting al other respectes of myself , rather thenne I shuld be
otherwise taken thenne I am ; that is to saye , openly to swere oon
thinge and pryvely to worke , saye , or doo otherwise ; wherof I was
never gylty . GARDIN,66.033.401

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , I have as gret cause as any man to desire rest and quiet
for the helth of my body ; wherunto I thought to have entended , and to
absteyne from bookes and wryting , having finished the translation of
Saynt Luke and Saynt John , wherin I have spent a gret labour .
GARDIN,66.033.402

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And nowe restith the levying of the subsidie , and the commissions of
sewars , in two places , and the commissions for musters ; wherin ,
upon your advertisement , we have stayed hitherto ; abyding nowe
whither ye wil commaunde us to doo any thing in it or noo .
GARDIN,66.033.403

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I seme to be here in ocio GARDIN,66.033.404

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I was never more buysied , what with the matiers itself , and what
with care lest I doo not well . GARDIN,66.033.405

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally , as it shal please the Kinges Highnes to ordre expressely , I
shal gladly doo ; of <P_67> which mynde I have ever constantly been .
As knowith God , Who sende youe helth and prosperite .
GARDIN,67.033.406

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Waltham , the x=th= day of June . GARDIN,67.033.407

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,67.033.408

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:GARDIN_033:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Master Thomas Cromwel ,
Principal Secretary to the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,67.033.409

<Q_GAR_A_1535_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_002> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_70>

{ED:52._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Calais,_24_October,_[1535]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations , with like
thankes for your good chere : Thiese $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to
advertise youe that , after a good passage over the sees , thankes be
to God , and the losse here at Calays of my servaunt Wodal , who this
daye is departed to God of the gret sikenesse , wherwith , as it maye
be conjected , he was infected at his late being at London lenger
thenne I wold he shuld , I entende , God willing , tomorowe to take my
journey towardes the French Courte . GARDIN,70.002.410

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My jornyng is slower thenne I wold it wer , GARDIN,70.002.411

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet is , I feare me , more spedy thenne my horse , by reason of
ther travayle on the sees , wyl mayteyne . GARDIN,70.002.412

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Baly of Troys left me worde by the waye that I shulde make noo hast
, GARDIN,70.002.413

<P_71>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wold goo never the slower for that , if my horse wold serve .
GARDIN,71.002.414

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if youe shal thinke that any gretter acceleration $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} requisite , I shal thenne use the remedye of the post ,
GARDIN,71.002.415

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I trust it shal not nede . GARDIN,71.002.416

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus moch I have thought good to wryte unto youe , to thintent that if
the Kinges Highnes shuld divise upon myn arryval in the French Courte
or the delaye in my journey , which in the strange watery wether here
and thorowe al Fraunce is moch more cumberous thenne it was wont , ye
might advertise his Majestie therof accordingly , as my trust is ye wyl
, GARDIN,71.002.417

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I most hartely desire youe soo to doo . GARDIN,71.002.418

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And even soo fare ye wel . GARDIN,71.002.419

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Calays , the xxiiij=th= daye of Octobre . GARDIN,71.002.420

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your loving assured frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,71.002.421

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:38?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:44
LETTER:GARDIN_002:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Honnorable Master Thomas Crumwel ,
Principal Secretary to the Kinges Highnes . GARDIN,71.002.422

<Q_GAR_A_1536_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_003> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_75>

{ED:54._TO_LISLE}

{ED:Paris,_14_July,_[1536]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In my most harty maner I recommende me to your good Lordship .
GARDIN,75.003.423

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And forasmoch as I knowe wel that in this turne of the worlde the newes
of importaunce be more fresh to youe there thenne they be in thiese
parties , and more suer and certain also , I therfor have and wyl
forbere to wryte any thing in those matiers . GARDIN,75.003.424

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French King is in his waye towardes this towne , GARDIN,75.003.425

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but , letted by sikenesse , he disapointeth his daye .
GARDIN,75.003.426

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet his sikenesse is not daungerous , as every man sayeth .
GARDIN,75.003.427

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Turkes cummyng is uncertain , saving that being the tyme of the
yeare soo far past , it is thought that rather he shuld not cumme
thenne otherwise . GARDIN,75.003.428

<P_76>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is said that the French King hath the better hand in Pyemont ;
GARDIN,76.003.429

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the truth Good {ED:i.e.,_God} knowith . GARDIN,76.003.430

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other tydinges I have not to signifie to your Lordship ,
GARDIN,76.003.431

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but praye youe that I may be most hartely recommended to my good Lady
your wife and al my good Lordes and $Masters of the Consail there .
GARDIN,76.003.432

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo , my good Lord Master , hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,76.003.433

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Parys the xiiij=th= of Julye . GARDIN,76.003.434

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshippes assuredly , Ste. Winton GARDIN,76.003.435

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:39?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:45
LETTER:GARDIN_003:E1:1536:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my very good Lord , my Lord Lysle , Lord Deputie of
Calays . GARDIN,76.003.436

<Q_GAR_A_1537_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_004> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_76>

{ED:55._TO_LISLE}

{ED:Paris,_10_January,_[1537]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My veray good Lorde , aftre my moost harty commendacions , with like
thankes for my greate chere at my late being at Calays : Thise $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} only to desire and pray your Lordship against my
returne to Calays , whiche , God willing , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} on
Monday cum sevennight or theraboutes , to take ordre that I may have
redy shipping for me and my horses . GARDIN,76.004.437

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For I entende , God willing , to make asmoche spede in my passage as
the wynde and wether wil geve me leave . GARDIN,76.004.438

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus desiring your good Lordship to have me hartly commended to my Lady
, I beseche our Lorde have you in his keping . GARDIN,76.004.439

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Parys the x=th= of January . GARDIN,76.004.440

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maister Wallopp hath him hartly commended to your Lordship , Maister
Porter , and to al the rest of the Counsail , with al other his frendes
there . GARDIN,76.004.441

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshippes assuredly , Ste. Winton GARDIN,76.004.442

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_004:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Righte Honorable , and my veray good Lorde , the
Viscounte Lisle , Deputie of Calays . GARDIN,76.004.443

<Q_GAR_A_1537_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_005> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_79>

{ED:57._TO_LISLE}

{ED:Lyons,_19_October,_[1537]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very good Lord , after my right harty commendacions : I have noon
other newes to send youe but such as al the worlde knowyth - that the
French King makith here a mervelous preparation to passe over the
mountaynes , but al shal not be in a redynes bifore thend of this
moneth . GARDIN,79.005.444

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Turke retyred himself without doing any notable acte , wherby he
hath lost his reputacion . GARDIN,79.005.445

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Venetians , that we ever noted to faver the Turke , have nowe
procured a leage against him . GARDIN,79.005.446

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ThEmperour , as it is said , hath taken , besides Narbonne , a castel
to countrevayle the taking of Heding by the French King .
GARDIN,79.005.447

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus the worlde waverith and fortune playne . GARDIN,79.005.448

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thinke they might leave game whenne they wold , GARDIN,79.005.449

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for al the poore folke that looke on be wery , and themself also .
GARDIN,79.005.450

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have nowe noon other matier . Wherefore , desiring your Lordship to
make my harty commendations to my good Lady , most hartely fare ye wel
. GARDIN,79.005.451

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Lyons the xix of Octobre . GARDIN,79.005.452

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshippes assured frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,79.005.453

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:40?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:46
LETTER:GARDIN_005:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my very good Lord , my Lord Deputie of Calays .
GARDIN,79.005.454

<Q_GAR_A_1538_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_006> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_79>

{ED:58._TO_CROMWELL}

{ED:Pierrelatte,_23_January,_[1538]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My very good Lord , after my most harty commendations : I send youe
herwith Master Wyattes letters , open , as they wer sent me , enclosed
in <P_80> this pacquet . GARDIN,80.006.455

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $thought Franciscus wold have been retourned from Spayne or this .
GARDIN,80.006.456

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nowe I depech Rede , who canne skyl of runnyng . GARDIN,80.006.457

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my posters be in England : Olyver , Massey , Arture Poley ,
Saintclere , Henry Fraunces , and Story , and then Barnabe who canne
doo wel . GARDIN,80.006.458

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have sued to the Kinges Highnes for a passe porte for vj horse ,
wherof , I thanke youe , youe have geven me two . GARDIN,80.006.459

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the Kinges Highnes graunte my sute , such of my men as wyl cumme ,
may on those horse repare hither that I nowe provide to be brought
hither . GARDIN,80.006.460

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe further my sutes both-1 for horse and money ,
GARDIN,80.006.461

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have mervelous gret nede of both . GARDIN,80.006.462

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I nede wryte to youe nothing of the matiers conteyned in my letters to
the Kinges Highnes ; GARDIN,80.006.463

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it wer but superfluous . GARDIN,80.006.464

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This troublith me that any man shuld thinke we had nede of ther
promyses . GARDIN,80.006.465

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Me thinkith it wer possible they shuld depende of us .
GARDIN,80.006.466

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne the Kinges Highnes , as he is emperour in dede in his realme
, soo he shuld in deade imperare through and over al , and himself no
further to care what other men doo , but al they to care what he doth .
GARDIN,80.006.467

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In that me thinke wer quietnesse . GARDIN,80.006.468

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I am wery of travayl , and specially in wryting such displeasaunte
matier . GARDIN,80.006.469

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I must ever wryte as truth requireth ; GARDIN,80.006.470

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shal , as wel as I canne , releave my werynes with remembraunce of
my princes goodnes , in whose service my mynde shal never faynte as
long as my body maye endure . GARDIN,80.006.471

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This berer hath desired me to wryte that at your next depech in to
Spayne , he may be sent ; GARDIN,80.006.472

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo I praye youe that he may be , GARDIN,80.006.473

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for upon counforte therof he hath promysed me to make diligence .
GARDIN,80.006.474

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus most hartely fare ye wel . GARDIN,80.006.475

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Pierelate , the xxiij of January . GARDIN,80.006.476

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshippes assuredly , Ste. Winton GARDIN,80.006.477

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_006:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my very good Lord , the Lord Pryve Seale .
GARDIN,80.006.478

<Q_GAR_A_1538_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_021> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_81>

{ED:59._TO_LISLE}

{ED:Moulins,_12_February,_[1538]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My singuler good Lorde , after my most harty commendations to your
Lordship and my good Lady : Thise $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} onely to
desire your Lordship to send this , thEmperours pacquet , into
Flaunders , according as I doubte not but Master Wyat in his letters
requireth your Lordship to doo , making a newe pacquet ther of and
directing the same to Master Hutton . GARDIN,81.021.479

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Newes here bee noon , save that the last Sondaye the Grete Master was
made Conestable of Fraunce , and this next Sondaye ij gentlemen shall
fight at oultrance before the King . GARDIN,81.021.480

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus , trusting shortly to see youe , in the meane season I shall
bidde your good Lordship , with my Lady , most hartely farewell .
GARDIN,81.021.481

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Molines the xij=th= of February . GARDIN,81.021.482

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshippes assured to my litel power , Ste. Winton
GARDIN,81.021.483

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:41?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:47
LETTER:GARDIN_021:E1:1538:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my singuler good Lorde , the Lord Visconte Lisle ,
Deputy of the Towne and Marchies of Calais . GARDIN,81.021.484

<Q_GAR_A_1542_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_035> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_94>

{ED:61._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Stepney,_12_May,_1542}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Majestie to understande that yesternyght , after myn
arryval at Stepney , I dyvysed to pyke a quarel to speke with
thambassadour , in such wise as it might serve to the purpose of that I
shuld speke afterward ; GARDIN,94.035.485

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor sent unto hym this message , that by chaunce I was his
neighbour for a seson , and having been thre yeres in Fraunce , I had
there lerned a lesson to be bold to send for wyne wheresoever I thought
the best to be , and moch more if my frend had it ; whereupon I sente
nowe unto hym for summe wyne to my supper ; GARDIN,94.035.486

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for that maner of Fraunce , I sayde , lyked me , GARDIN,94.035.487

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and many of ther other conditions I lyked not very wel ,
GARDIN,94.035.488

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I was a French man oonly in that poynt . GARDIN,94.035.489

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thambassadour lyked the message very wel , and specyally that I sayde I
was a French man oonly in that poynte ; GARDIN,94.035.490

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therupon sent his secretary unto me to desire me to dyne with hym
the next daye , with offre to cumme to salute me in the mornyng
folowyng ; which he wold have doon , if I had not prevented hym .
GARDIN,94.035.491

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo we camme togyther rather of his provocacion thenne of myn , as
he takith it ; GARDIN,94.035.492

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have soo facioned myself in our communication al this forenone
that he sueth unto me to be a meane to your Majestie that he maye
repare unto the same and be more graciously harde ; GARDIN,94.035.493

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he knowith by his owne wisedom that your Majestie maye be the staye
of Christendom , and the amitie bytwen your Majestie and thEmperour to
be the very meane to extincte the light enterprises of Fraunce , and to
expelle the Turke , and to quiet Germanye ; and that without your
Majestie there canne be nothing stable . GARDIN,94.035.494

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for that purpose he byganne to divise with me howe he might take
occasion to have a newe accesse unto your Majestie , instantly to make
sute unto the same , on thEmperours byhaulf , to be content to treate
upon sum mater that might be an introduction to amytie , not by way of
practise , but ernestly , addyng that there was nothing soo dere unto
hym as his owne lyfe , but that he wold aventure upon that he shuld
open to be prosecuted and perfourmed by thEmperour . GARDIN,94.035.495

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He said he could not facion hymself noon other commission <P_95> thenne
he hath , GARDIN,95.035.496

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he wold it wer such as might please your Majestie to accepte .
GARDIN,95.035.497

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' But , ' quod he , ' I have letters from thEmperour to warrante me to
propone that I shal propone , and to conclude that I shal conclude ;
and , for pledge of thEmperour , letters auctentique under his seale ;
GARDIN,95.035.498

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to conferme al I wyl bynde my body and lyfe , GARDIN,95.035.499

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wyl alsoo wryte dyligently and with spede to atteyne them . '
GARDIN,95.035.500

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al that the French men doo , he knowith , and grauntyth ,
GARDIN,95.035.501

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in his jugement thinketh your Majestie oonly mete to be woed and
sued for , which he wyl gladly doo , GARDIN,95.035.502

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath divised with me howe I coulde helpe hym therin .
GARDIN,95.035.503

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , forasmoch as I sawe hym in this good trade , I wold not shewe
myself over bold therin , GARDIN,95.035.504

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but told hym that in dede I wold fayne it wer wel , GARDIN,95.035.505

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I durst not myself medle over ernestly in it ; GARDIN,95.035.506

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but told hym I wold consulte with my Lord Pryve Seale , as of myself ,
whither he thought it wer best for thambassadour to sewe for audience
agayn or not . GARDIN,95.035.507

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And with this resolution I departed from thambassadour , as it wer to
speke with my Lord Pryve Seale , and soo to retourne this night .
GARDIN,95.035.508

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to be sure of me , he hath invitet me to dyner tomorowe ,
GARDIN,95.035.509

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as I perceyve by hym , wyl doo as I shal avise hym , to sue to
your Majestie as ernestly as maye be , and therupon to sende , wryte ,
treate , here , bynde hymself , and doo al thing that might further
this matier of amitie bytwen your Majestie and thEmperour ;
GARDIN,95.035.510

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I doubte not but he wyl use hymself in such sorte and facion as
maye be pleasaunt and acceptable to your Highnes . GARDIN,95.035.511

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In our conference we spake of al such matiers as your Highnes had
signified unto me by Master Sadler ; GARDIN,95.035.512

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thambassadour considered them wisely , GARDIN,95.035.513

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and finally concludeth your Majesties amitie most necessary to
thEmperour ; GARDIN,95.035.514

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , to atteyn that , wyl doo that in hym lyeth . GARDIN,95.035.515

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And upon knowlege of your Majesties pleasour , I shal descend with hym
to sum particularites , as the same $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} signified
unto me ; most humbly desyring your Majestie that I maye be advertysed
whither I shal advyse thambassadour to sue to your Majesties Counsayl
for audience or to your personne ; GARDIN,95.035.516

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I doubte not to frame hym accordingly , GARDIN,95.035.517

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the man is of hymself moch desirous of sum good effecte bytwen your
Majestie and thEmperour in a perfection of amytie . GARDIN,95.035.518

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , as I may knowe your Majesties special pleasour , soo shal I
further procede , havyng nowe such opportunite therfor as a better
coulde not be wished . GARDIN,95.035.519

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I praye Almyghty God to preserve your Most <P_96> Excellent
Majestie in long , prosperous , and contynual felicite .
GARDIN,96.035.520

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Stepney , this Fryday the xij=th= of Maye . GARDIN,96.035.521

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Majesties most humble and obedient subject , servaunt , and dayly
bedeman , Ste. Winton GARDIN,96.035.522

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:45?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:51
LETTER:GARDIN_035:E1:1542:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Most Excellent Majestie .
GARDIN,96.035.523

<Q_GAR_A_1544_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_036> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_123>

{ED:65._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Calais,_5_July,_1544}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Most Excellent Majestie to understande that my Lord of
Suffolk at his departure this daye wylled me to open such letters as
shuld arryve from Master Hal , and , if the matier required hast , to
sende the letters strayte forth and advertise him of the contentes ;
wherfor being this instaunt the very tyme of passage , and appering by
the letters howe the caryages required be prested already by Fraunces
Hal against the vj=th= day , which is tomorowe , I send the said
letters unto your Majestie , and doo also incontinently advertise my
Lord of Suffolk according to his ordre . GARDIN,123.036.524

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I retayne here the passeporte for your Majesties meres to put in
execution accordyngly . GARDIN,123.036.525

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The letters cam to my handes a lytel perished with water ,
GARDIN,123.036.526

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they be nevertheles legible for theffecte . GARDIN,123.036.527

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Almyghty God preserve your Majesties most noble and royal astate in
long and prosperous felicite . GARDIN,123.036.528

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Calays the v=th= of Julye . GARDIN,123.036.529

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Majesties most humble and obedient subget , servaunt , chapelen ,
and dayly bedeman , Ste. Winton GARDIN,123.036.530

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:47?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:53
LETTER:GARDIN_036:E1:1544:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Most Excellent Majesty .
GARDIN,123.036.531

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_050> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_131>

{ED:70._TO_PARKER}

{ED:London,_23_April,_[1545]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Vicechaunceler , after my harty commendacions : Having commodite
to send this berer , my chapelen , to the Universite , I have thought
good to signifie further my mynde unto youe concernyng the examynation
of the truth of the matier of the tragedie played in Christes College ;
whereof I have harde more then I harde bifore , and have harde somoch
that I thynke it necessarye for my discharge to travayle with youe to
atteyne the knowlege of the very truth , and further to doo therin as
the case shal requyre . GARDIN,131.050.532

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to thintent it maye appere that , howesoever yought , eyther-3 of
fraylte , lightnes , or malyce , wold abuse ther giftes , we that be
hedes and rulers over them shuld not be seen eyther-5 by sufferaunce or
negligence to be blamewordye of ther faulte , I wyl and require youe
that upon receipte of thiese my letters ye assemble the masters and
presidentes of the colleges with the doctors of the Universite , and ,
declaring unto them this matier , to require them to assiste youe in
the tryal of the truth concernyng the said tragedye ; and that , by due
examynation of such as wer there , it may be truely knowen what was
uttred , and soo by ther jugement approved for good which by the ordre
establyshed by the Kinges Majestie in this Churche is reproved , or by
them reproved which by the Kinges Majestie is allowed .
GARDIN,131.050.533

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have harde specyalties that they reproved Lent fastinges , al
ceremonies , and albeit the wordes of Sacrament and Masse wer not named
, yet the rest of the matier wryten in that tragedie in the reprofe of
them was expressed . GARDIN,131.050.534

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if , as youe wrote to me , they left out sumwhat unspoken , it
shuld appere that the rest , being spoken , was , upon a jugement by
<P_132> consideration and deliberation , allowed ; which , if it be
trewe , is a lamentable case and such as hath not chaunced , that such
as by the Kinges Majesties privileges and supportacion be there
preserved in quiet to lerne al vertue shuld presumptuously mok and
skorne the direction of ther prince in matier of religion .
GARDIN,132.050.535

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I touche oonly herin the truth of obedience , GARDIN,132.050.536

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I estyme such offenders for unlerned and ignorante , unmete to
discerne what is truth in the matier . GARDIN,132.050.537

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if the Kinges Majesties directions be not obeyed there , and by us
dissembled , howe shal we charge the rudenesse abrode that maye allege
ther example for pretense of ther fault ? GARDIN,132.050.538

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This matier is gretter thenne wer expedient to be trewe ,
GARDIN,132.050.539

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is more certaynly reaported unto me thenne of lightlywode canne be
totally false . GARDIN,132.050.540

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is not the faulte of us that be heedes to have in the numbre sum
nought , untyl we passe over ther faulte and suffer it unpunished .
GARDIN,132.050.541

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I coulde have leysour to cumme myself , I wold not spare to cumme
thether for this purpose , being the specyal pointe of my charge .
GARDIN,132.050.542

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In myn absence I require the ayde of youe to knowe by your examination
the truth of the matier ; wherein I praye youe use the assistence of
the $masters , presidentes , and doctors as afore . GARDIN,132.050.543

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as wylde wanton libertie sumtyme brestith oute in yought to ther
reproch , soo let sobrenes and gravitie appere in us requisite for
thexecution of our charge . GARDIN,132.050.544

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Many hath of late repyned at the Kinges Majesties munificence in our
privileges and otherwise , GARDIN,132.050.545

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and let not us geve cause that they shuld justely soo doo .
GARDIN,132.050.546

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our obedience shuld be example to al other in publique directions
without occasion of al slaunder . GARDIN,132.050.547

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If lernyng shuld nowe be an instrument to sterre up dissension and
trouble the commen quietnesse , ther opinion shuld be confermed which
not many yeres past have laboured to prove , in bokes prynted in
Englyshe , that the universities be the corruption of the realme .
GARDIN,132.050.548

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Oxford lyveth quietly with fewer privileges thenne we have ;
GARDIN,132.050.549

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ther be that wold we had as fewe as theye . GARDIN,132.050.550

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I entreate this offense oonly worldlye , bycause the capacitie of
thoffenders seemeth to stretche noo further . GARDIN,132.050.551

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he that regardith not his obedience to his prince regardith not
moch his obedience to God and His truth , which he hath offended in the
other . Wherfor I praye youe let us by due examination finde the faulte
where it is , and soo purge <P_133> ourself . GARDIN,133.050.552

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And what ye shall finde herin I praye youe advertise me with diligence
. GARDIN,133.050.553

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo fare ye wel . GARDIN,133.050.554

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London , the xxiij=ti= of Apryl . GARDIN,133.050.555

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,133.050.556

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_050:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To Master Vicechaunceler of the Universite of Cambredge
. GARDIN,133.050.557

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_054> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_133>

{ED:71._TO_PARKER}

{ED:London,_12_May,_[1545]}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Vicechaunceler , after my harty commendations : I perceyve by
your letters , which I have receyved with the boke of the tragedie ,
that ye have assembled the sage of the Universite to knowe , by ther
inquisition severally in ther howses , what was uttred that might and
ought to offende godly eares in the playing of the same at Christes
Colleage . Wherin , as apperith by your letters , reaporte was made
unto youe that noo man is offended . GARDIN,133.054.558

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet perusyng the booke of the tragedie which ye sent me , I finde
moch matier not stryken out , al which by the parties own confession
was uttred , very nought , and on the other parte sumthing not wel
omitted ; where allowing and rejecting shuld procede of jugement , and
that to be taken for trewe which was uttred , and that for untrewe
which they note as untrewe to be omitted and left unspoken . Soo as
this boke declarith the parties to have double offended , both-1 in
denying that is trewe and also approving that is false ; as in sum
parte by ther notes doth appere . GARDIN,133.054.559

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in dede in the tragedye untruth is soo maliciously weved with truth
as , making the bishop of Rome with certain his abuses the foundation
of the matier , the auctours <P_134> reproch wherof is true , soo many
abhominable and detestable lyes be added and mingled with the other
truth , as noo Christen eares shuld paciently heare ; and $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} , in the processe of the matier , be , without a
mervelous alteration other thenne was nowe used , dissevered a sondre .
By meane whereof , where al other proufe fayleth , there the boke
maketh an undowted proufe of ther lewdenesse to me here ;
GARDIN,134.054.560

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that which soo many of the Universite , being present , herde and
offended them not soo depely but it is nowe worn out and they be noo
lenger offended , the same is by exhibition of the booke soo notified
unto me GARDIN,134.054.561

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo grevith me , being absent , as , howe soone soever I forget
theffense upon ther reconciliation , I shal hardely of a gret while
forget the matier . GARDIN,134.054.562

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if open and notorious faultes , which thoffenders in pompe and
triumphe soo uttre as they wold have men knowe them and marke them ,
shal fromhensforth without al reformation be neglected and forgoten ,
or soo by sylence hidden as they shal not appere to be corrected ,
there is smal hope of conservation of good ordre , and a mervelous
boldnesse geven to offenders , the meanes of reformation thus taken
awaye . GARDIN,134.054.563

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wise men have noted truely that it is caput audatie impunitatis spes
{ED:cf.,_Cicero,_Mil.,_16,_43} , which must nedes growe where open
faultes be thus neglected and pretermitted ; wherein they be chiefly to
be blamed that forbere to make reaporte of that they have harde whenne
they be required . GARDIN,134.054.564

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold not be over curious , oonles the crime wer notable , to bring to
light his faulte that himself hath used meanes to hide from the worlde
. GARDIN,134.054.565

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if the offender be soo destitute of al feare and shame as thiese
players wer , why shuld any man forbere , whenne they walke in the
streate naked , to poynt them with his fynger and saye , ' There they
goo ! ' GARDIN,134.054.566

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I here many thinges to be very far out of order both openly in the
Universite and severally in the colleges , wherof I am sory ; and
amonges other , in contempte of me , the determination of the
pronunciation of certain Grece letters , agreed unto by thauctorite of
the hol Universite , to be violate and broken without any correction
therfor . GARDIN,134.054.567

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The matier is lowe , and the contempte soomoch the more .
GARDIN,134.054.568

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was chosen Chaunceler to be soo honored <paren> although above my
desertes </paren> of them , GARDIN,134.054.569

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have geven noo cause to be despised . GARDIN,134.054.570

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wil doo that I canne for the mayntenaunce of vertue and good ordre
there , and chalenge again , <P_135> of dutie , to be regarded after
the proportion , not of my qualites , but myn office ; requyring youe ,
Master Vicechaunceler , to communicate these my letters with the
masters , presidentes , and doctours , and on my behaulf to desire them
gravely to consider of what moment the good ordre of $yought is , and
to withstand the lewde $licence of such as have neyther shame ne feare
of $punishement and correction . GARDIN,135.054.571

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lesson of obedience wold be wel taught and practised ,
GARDIN,135.054.572

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} more diligent to knowe howe men proufite
in it thenne I have been . GARDIN,135.054.573

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have shewed the hol Counsayl the wordes spoken by Master Scot , from
whom ye shal shortly receyve answer in that matier . GARDIN,135.054.574

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as touching those that wer chief players in the tragedie , I here
very evel matier , GARDIN,135.054.575

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I pray youe cal them unto youe GARDIN,135.054.576

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and knowe whither they wyl acknowlege and confesse ther faulte or noo ,
and to signifie the same unto me . GARDIN,135.054.577

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo fare ye wel . GARDIN,135.054.578

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London the xij=th= of Maye . GARDIN,135.054.579

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,135.054.580

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:54
LETTER:GARDIN_054:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To my loving frend , Master Vicechaunceler of Cambredge
. GARDIN,135.054.581

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_001> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_150>

{ED:74._TO_PAGET}

{ED:London,_18_October,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : Yesterdaye I
receyved your letters with letters and instructions for my depeche ,
GARDIN,150.001.582

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , having depeched myself hens , I departe this daye from hens ,
GARDIN,150.001.583

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whiles I may knowe whither thAdmyral be arryved or noo , I shal use
al the diligence I canne . GARDIN,150.001.584

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as I atteyne knowlege of the Admyralles arryval or otherwise , I
shal slak or make more hast according to your advise .
GARDIN,150.001.585

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have sent this berer , my servaunt , to youe to receyve such houndes
and grewhoundes as it shal please the Kinges Majestie to appointe to be
sent to my Lady Regent , wherin , I praye youe , helpe to depech him ,
GARDIN,150.001.586

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for although it be a smal matier here , yet is a gret matier thither as
I goo . GARDIN,150.001.587

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray youe also , if ye see opportunite , to make myn excuse to the
Quenes Grace that I did not myn owne duetie to take my leave of her
Grace as I wold have doon , if the confusion of myn owne thinges had
suffered me to remembre it , ne also have discharged therin that
Skepperus committed on me as a parte of his charge . GARDIN,150.001.588

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have here commened and divised with Master Ryther for the furniter of
Bolen , GARDIN,150.001.589

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane tyme have receyved a letter from Master Ager , who
allegith hymself to be sik , as by his letters he apperith to be , and
that in his wytte he $is not sufficient ; wherof his letters semeth to
geve sum testimonie , GARDIN,150.001.590

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he wyl not serve there to be charged oonles he may have a pardon
bifore hand for his negligence and otherwise , like a clause in
patentes , absque compoto inde nobis reddendo GARDIN,150.001.591

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as the prentes made his master , with thre countres shortely , ' I
have nought , I owe nought , ner nothing is owing me . '
GARDIN,150.001.592

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Calays for somoch excedith Bolen , GARDIN,150.001.593

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for in Calays Master Mondey serveth diligently without any such
protestacion . GARDIN,150.001.594

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master $Ager dare not aventure soo far at Bolen . GARDIN,150.001.595

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A faulte <P_151> there is , which I thinke Mastre Southwel wyl and
canne disclose . GARDIN,151.001.596

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bring to passe that diligence wel
rewarded in service shal exclude the request for a pardon for
negligence and otherwise , there $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} , besides the
gret losse , a gret disordre . GARDIN,151.001.597

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally , I wold require youe to wryte to Mastre Ager eyther to serve
like a man , manly , with such conditions in service as reason wold he
shuld be content with , or elles to make sute , for his inhabilite , to
be discharged , if that allegacion be trewe . GARDIN,151.001.598

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold noo man to be so burdened in his rome as he shulde byde the
aventure of al losses and decayes in victualles , GARDIN,151.001.599

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for that wer to moch ; GARDIN,151.001.600

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to be bounde to nothing again but to have pardon for negligence and
otherwise , like Master Wingfeldes pardon in Fraunce for them he had
kylled and shuld kyl , this is over deyntye . GARDIN,151.001.601

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye told me oones ye love noo extremites , GARDIN,151.001.602

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the meane is best , as the wife confessed to her husbond who coulde
hitte it ; GARDIN,151.001.603

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I forgette myself GARDIN,151.001.604

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and excede it even nowe in wryting . GARDIN,151.001.605

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Ryther reparith to the Courte to declare what he hath doon .
GARDIN,151.001.606

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I bydde youe hartely fare wel . GARDIN,151.001.607

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London the xviij=th= of Octobre , this Sonday in the mornyng .
GARDIN,151.001.608

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,151.001.609

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_001:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshippful Sir Wylliam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaries .
GARDIN,151.001.610

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_007> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_151>

{ED:75._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Dover,_21_October,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : Yesterday the
wynde was soo aloft and , by reason of the quarter it stode in , the
further shore so fowle , that they wold make noo passage .
GARDIN,151.007.611

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This daye the whether <P_152> is fayre , GARDIN,152.007.612

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $I determyne to goo to the shippe upon thending of this letter .
GARDIN,152.007.613

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God send me good passage and youe hartely wel to fare .
GARDIN,152.007.614

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} thus make an ende of my letter ,
GARDIN,152.007.615

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but signifie unto youe what the Mayre of Cauntourbury and his brethern
, the aldermen , shewed me of the mysordre lately there by a bande of
souldgers , soo outrageous and abhominable as I wold not have wryten
upon any other reaporte ; GARDIN,152.007.616

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and what they tolde me I badde them take hede what they sayde ,
GARDIN,152.007.617

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , if nede shulde be , I wold charge them therwith .
GARDIN,152.007.618

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A $fourtenight bypast ther cam to Cantourbury a bande of souldgeors
from Portysmouth to goo to Boleyn , GARDIN,152.007.619

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and divised by the waye , and at Cantourbury , such a sleight of
robbing the poore people , with such a colour to exchue the name of
theft , as , oon of the aldermen tolde me , they coulde not have doon
and som of them had not been scolers of Cambredge . GARDIN,152.007.620

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I smyled with myself at it , howe onawars he touched me that am
Chaunceler of that Universite . GARDIN,152.007.621

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They told me sum of ther conceytes , wherat they laughed not that
suffred , GARDIN,152.007.622

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet the reaporte hath sum myrth in it , somoch as maye be in a
noughty matier . GARDIN,152.007.623

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He that had noo money wold borowe a grote of his felawe and goo in to
the towne , shewing the grote and saying : ' Canne a man finde noo
where foure pens ? GARDIN,152.007.624

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wyl noo man geve me foure pens ? ' GARDIN,152.007.625

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therwith ever shewed his grote . Wherupon sum simple bodye ,
mynding to change the grote , wold geve him foure pens .
GARDIN,152.007.626

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne he had receyved the pens , he made coursye , GARDIN,152.007.627

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
put of his cap with a gret many of thankes , GARDIN,152.007.628

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $then , whenne the poore woman asked the grote , he layde his hande
on his brest GARDIN,152.007.629

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and swore the grote was noon of his , GARDIN,152.007.630

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he had borowed it oonly to get foure pens withal , GARDIN,152.007.631

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and must nedes geve it again to his felawe as he had promysed ;
GARDIN,152.007.632

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he wold remembre her kyndnesse , GARDIN,152.007.633

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and she shuld not lose by it ; GARDIN,152.007.634

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo , with good wordes , went his waye GARDIN,152.007.635

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and left the woman weping . GARDIN,152.007.636

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
An other had espied a preste , GARDIN,152.007.637

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and him he shewed an angel of gold , GARDIN,152.007.638

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therwith said he had to paye money and wanted wight money ,
GARDIN,152.007.639

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tolde the prest if he coulde helpe him he did him a gret pleasour .
GARDIN,152.007.640

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The prest thought to get his favour to change his aungel ,
GARDIN,152.007.641

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and beganne to tel in to his hand grotes , mynding to geve him xxiiij
for his angel ; GARDIN,152.007.642

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whenne the prest had told to twenty , the souldger clapped his hand
fast GARDIN,152.007.643

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told the prest he wold make shift with that for this tyme ,
GARDIN,152.007.644

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told him therwith that in this harde worlde he thought the prest
strayned himself of forbere somoch , GARDIN,152.007.645

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and suerly he thanked him with al his harte . GARDIN,152.007.646

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne the prest asked the angel , the <P_153> souldgier swore that
both wold skase serve his purpose . GARDIN,153.007.647

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After thys sorte wer meny deceyved with good wordes .
GARDIN,153.007.648

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other wer deceyved with knokkes , GARDIN,153.007.649

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for when oon had sold his sword or his cloke , an other begynneth with
the byer with a blowe on the eare , GARDIN,153.007.650

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and askith him what he did with his sword or his cloke ,
GARDIN,153.007.651

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo toke it awaye . GARDIN,153.007.652

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It wer to long to wryte al ther conceytes . GARDIN,153.007.653

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I asked the Mayre why he refourmed not the matier , GARDIN,153.007.654

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he said he was told he might medle with noo souldger .
GARDIN,153.007.655

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I told him I toke it not soo . GARDIN,153.007.656

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They thenne tolde me that after thiese pagauntes playde , and that they
wer soo wel knowen that noo man durst bye of them , noo man medle with
them , they beganne them to lowe stowrely and grymly , and beganne to
swere they wold make the towne a towne of warre . GARDIN,153.007.657

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne xxx of them went with a dromslade in to the cathedral
churche GARDIN,153.007.658

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and beganne to pyke a quarel to the belringer , GARDIN,153.007.659

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he shranke from them to a place where he might pere at them .
GARDIN,153.007.660

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne they went to an awter that stode in the body of the churche
GARDIN,153.007.661

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there made a resemblaunce to synge a Gospel , with Dominus vobiscum
, and the rest answering ; GARDIN,153.007.662

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and beganne the <font> Boke of Generation of Margery Curson </font> ,
GARDIN,153.007.663

' And she begate such a bawde , ' etc . GARDIN,153.007.664

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne they went to procession , GARDIN,153.007.665

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke down an image , very gret , of Saincte John Baptiste ;
GARDIN,153.007.666

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that image they layde on the grownde , GARDIN,153.007.667

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and oon cutte of the fynger , an other the nose , GARDIN,153.007.668

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after by peaces mangled the image with such spyteful wordes as have
not been harde . GARDIN,153.007.669

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this doon moo of ther felaws reasorted to them to the number of clx
{ED:160} , GARDIN,153.007.670

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and al went in a raye throwe the towne with ther drumslade , and
syngyng like men madde . GARDIN,153.007.671

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Mayre waxed in oon wondrous feere , GARDIN,153.007.672

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake with the pety captayne , GARDIN,153.007.673

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and desired they might be kept within ther houses wer they lodged , who
promised it shuld soo be . GARDIN,153.007.674

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Mayre with his brethern watched , GARDIN,153.007.675

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he feared the town shuld , with the yought of the towne ydel
foulkes joyning to them , have been put to sak . GARDIN,153.007.676

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The souldgerors that night wer kept in whiles it was tenne of the clok
. GARDIN,153.007.677

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne cummith abrode a certain of them GARDIN,153.007.678

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and pyketh a quarel to the watche , GARDIN,153.007.679

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there begynneth a fraye , and therupon the towne in a alarum ,
GARDIN,153.007.680

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
diverse wer hurte , GARDIN,153.007.681

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the townes men kept ther howses , for avoyding $more inconvenience
. GARDIN,153.007.682

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next daye the souldgers <P_154> wer examyned bifore my Lord of
Cauntourburye , who by lightlywode durst not punishe them ,
GARDIN,154.007.683

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thre wer sent two $pryson about tenne of the clok in the mornyng ;
GARDIN,154.007.684

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther was a dissension bytwen the aldermen bycause they wold tel
precisely truly whither they cam owte of pryson again at oon of the
clok in the afternone that same daye or two . GARDIN,154.007.685

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this doon , they taryed in the town vij or viij dayes after ,
without paying for that they toke , GARDIN,154.007.686

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo owe the pore men above xxxv <font> li. </font> , and almost xl
. GARDIN,154.007.687

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mary , the pety captayne swerith he wyl sel his land but he payeth it ,
GARDIN,154.007.688

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath in dede noon ; GARDIN,154.007.689

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his preferrement in mariage hath not been gret , GARDIN,154.007.690

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he maryed of my neybour , as it is tolde me . GARDIN,154.007.691

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is , in my jugement , a rude bihavour which I coulde not , having
laysour , leve on wryten , herby to provoke youe to wryte at lenght to
me . GARDIN,154.007.692

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My papour is spent GARDIN,154.007.693

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the maryners tary for me . Wherfor fare ye wel . GARDIN,154.007.694

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Dover , xxj=ti= of Octobre in the mornyng . GARDIN,154.007.695

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,154.007.696

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_007:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,154.007.697

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_008> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_157>

{ED:78._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_5_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : In fewe wordes
, I must have for the while as good opinion of thies men here as we had
of Skepperus and his felawe in England . GARDIN,157.008.698

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Oon speketh , in the comedye , by {ED:i.e.,_of} Syrus , Fingit etiam
vultus scelus , GARDIN,157.008.699

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I promyse youe whenne thiese men sawe I had commission with the
rest to speke of those matiers bitwen us and thEmperour , they made
ernest countenaunce of rejoyse ; GARDIN,157.008.700

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if I shuld not cal it ernest , I shuld speke other wise thenne I
thinke for the tyme . GARDIN,157.008.701

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Skore and al is ours . GARDIN,157.008.702

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our communication was togither as though we wer al oon again ;
GARDIN,157.008.703

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nowe Monsieur de Prate commened GARDIN,157.008.704

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had x tymes as many wordes as he had the last yere in al our often
meatinges . GARDIN,157.008.705

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne I sawe them soo joieulx , I entred even the same affection
with them , GARDIN,157.008.706

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo departed with them familierly . GARDIN,157.008.707

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This after <P_158> noone I goo $to the Quene , having here al the
Kinges Majesties present of houndes and grewhondes , which $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} a gorgeous matier whenne ther colours be on , which be
very gaye . GARDIN,158.008.708

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If any chaunge be , I wyl wryte of that as playnly , and as I see any
clowdes , wryte of them ; and not doo as Jasper Laet doth , saye this
or that shal in dede folowe that . GARDIN,158.008.709

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I remitte thither but as I here and see for the tyme ;
GARDIN,158.008.710

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
soo wyl I testifie . GARDIN,158.008.711

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I spake coldely in the matier they wold faynest have harde on , to see
whither ther wer any warmeth in them or not ; GARDIN,158.008.712

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nowe they shewe themself warme , GARDIN,158.008.713

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God graunte it be a natural heate , as I assure youe I must nedes judge
it for the tyme . GARDIN,158.008.714

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sumwhat I shal knowe more by the Quenes facion , which I shal advertise
incontinently , and spare noo more the Kinges Majesties purse in postes
nowe thenne other doo in ther feate , being everyman disposed to spende
with the uttermost , besides them that waste - GARDIN,158.008.715

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I staye here for feare of entryng the matier of victualles , etc .
GARDIN,158.008.716

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prince of Piemont hath sent worde to sende to visite me this
afternone . GARDIN,158.008.717

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe by the next let me knowe the Kinges Majesties pleasour
howe to use myself in visitacion of ambassadours and such princes ,
wherin ther is a certayn cursye of Courte used , and is cause sumtyme
of knowlege . GARDIN,158.008.718

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold doo as I shuld not offende , GARDIN,158.008.719

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor I praye youe forget not by the next to advertise me of the
Kinges Majesties pleasour . GARDIN,158.008.720

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I byd youe fare wel GARDIN,158.008.721

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and goo to my dyner . GARDIN,158.008.722

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have depeched Nicolas to the commissaryes , as ye shal perceyve by
our letters to the Kinges Majestie . GARDIN,158.008.723

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus fare ye hartely wel . GARDIN,158.008.724

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne I forget to make due commendacions to my good lordes and
masters as I shuld , I praye youe remembre it , GARDIN,158.008.725

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I mynde it always GARDIN,158.008.726

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet maye forget , as ye did in subscribing in your name to your
last letter . GARDIN,158.008.727

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges the v=th= of Novembre . GARDIN,158.008.728

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,158.008.729

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_008:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipfull Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
one of the Kinges Majesties two Principall Secretaries .
GARDIN,158.008.730

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_009> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_159>

{ED:79._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_5_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : Synnes the
depech yesternight , I have called to my remembraunce that I wrote unto
youe by Francisco from Newporte , and howe nere it turneth to ernest
that I wrote there but to expresse thextremite of myn affection .
GARDIN,159.009.731

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I bad , soo we might have peax , send me to Jherico ; which ye have not
doon , GARDIN,159.009.732

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ye have goon somwhat towarde it , GARDIN,159.009.733

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ye have sumwhat eased the journey , but yet not moch ;
GARDIN,159.009.734

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that I shuld not take the payne to goo to Jherico , ye have , by my
servaunt Olyver ,

sent Jherico to me ; which thing , although ye have frendly doon , yet
I had almost as leve a goon to Jherico in dede as to have Jherico sent
me after that sorte . GARDIN,159.009.736

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And howe fondly it cam in to my penne to wryte , ' Send me to Jherico ,
' GARDIN,159.009.737

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therwith cummyth to passe that ye send Jherico to me , and Jherico
after that sorte ! GARDIN,159.009.738

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have , in joye myngled with sorowe , considered with myselfe the
chaunce . GARDIN,159.009.739

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And by thenne ye have redde of my letter thus far , GARDIN,159.009.740

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thinke ye shal muse sumwhat and be serching in your imagination what
Jherico meanyth , wherin I spend with youe thus many wordes in vayne ;
bycause the grounde of the matier of Jherico which ye sent me is in
dede wordes , but wordes so ordred and used as they importe a juste
cause of lamentacion and sorowe , and such as wyl engendre dedes as
horse heres doo snakes , if they be suffred to putrifie .
GARDIN,159.009.741

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Of the bookes cast abrode in London , ye have sent me oon ;
GARDIN,159.009.742

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that is in thende noted to be prynted at Jherico , as he sayth , by
Tom Trouth ; GARDIN,159.009.743

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and <P_160> he that wold have truth , I feare me , shuld be fayne to
travayle thither to seke hym <paren> out of England </paren> .
GARDIN,160.009.744

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The auctour of this booke hath nomen ominosum GARDIN,160.009.745

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and callith himself <font> Mors </font> , proponyng and uttering such
matier as doth threaten death of body and soule ; of the body by
dissension , and the soule by damnation . GARDIN,160.009.746

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howmoch is a prince touched to have al such as rulith under hym brought
in contempt with the inferiour people ! GARDIN,160.009.747

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thaldermen of London , that shuld be in reverence and punishe offenders
, they be noted for the lewdest men in the citie . GARDIN,160.009.748

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They note the Kinges Majestie not to see the truth . GARDIN,160.009.749

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They condempne al the Parlament of ignoraunce , GARDIN,160.009.750

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saye to the people they have commission of God soo to saye .
GARDIN,160.009.751

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I saye , ' theye , ' bicause they be above the singuler numbre ,
although oonly Roderigo Mors writeth this booke , who is in dede a
vayneglorious fole ; and ever in the booke , whenne he spekith of joye
, writeth that worde with a gret letter , wherby his favourers might
take counforte to see and rede his name , which is in dede Joye , that
workyth sorowe to himself and other , and not Mors , wherof if he
borowed an adjective , it shuld be wel placed . GARDIN,160.009.752

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alas ! GARDIN,160.009.753

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
alas ! GARDIN,160.009.754

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what meanith this , that a knave lurkyng in a corner , as Joye doth at
Antwerpe , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} nurished to trouble the realme
after this sorte ? GARDIN,160.009.755

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al other troubles be trifles in respecte of that . GARDIN,160.009.756

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Let men saye of me what they wyl . GARDIN,160.009.757

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As he that hath made an ende of his oration may saye , dixi , soo , for
myn owne pleasour in the worlde , I maye saye , vixi , fuimus Troes et
ingens gloria Dardanidum {ED:Aeneid,_II,_325} , as he sayde .
GARDIN,160.009.758

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This oon pleasour is behinde , which in an honest harte is never ended
, to see thinges in ther due ordre , soo as our posterite maye saye we
cared sumwhat for them . GARDIN,160.009.759

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If it wer the truth that is set forth for truthe , if those that sette
it forth had any qualites wherby a man might gather sum good opinion of
the matier , if such as medle with it waxed sumwhat better with it and
not a gret dele the worse , if it wer not throughly knowen and
throughly perceyved that thende of the secte is the destruction of
Goddes honnour and mannes also , ye might cal me vehement to wryte thus
of the matier . GARDIN,160.009.760

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But whenne al this is layde afore our eyes , we suffre an unreasonable
trouble with a matier of nought , wherof canne cumme noo good ende .
GARDIN,160.009.761

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howe many bookes and skrolles have been cast abrode in London within
this yere and the offender never founde owte ! GARDIN,160.009.762

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Soo <P_161> many prestes serched and put from ther goodes for a tyme ,
soo openly doon , and the offenders never founde owte !
GARDIN,161.009.763

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thiese be commen open matiers . GARDIN,161.009.764

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for private attemptates , there have been a gret meany ; and such
particular tales blowen abrode as $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be sowen but
of the devel . GARDIN,161.009.765

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye wold have me contemne them , GARDIN,161.009.766

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo doo I . GARDIN,161.009.767

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} contempne the welth of the realme ,
wherin I have lyved soo honnourable a lyfe by the Kinges Majesties
goodnesse , duryng whose life , which I trust shal be lenger then myne
, I feare not thiese fonde malicious folyes . GARDIN,161.009.768

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But whenne those that nowe be yonge shal , with the fraylete of yought
, wyne a contempte of religion and conceyve an other opinion of God
thenne is in dede trewe , what is like to ensue therof ?
GARDIN,161.009.769

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If $in Germanye such as have been brought up in those opinions had in
ther behavour a more perfite reverence and obedience to thEmperour ,
who , whatsoever he be , he is ther superiour , thenne wold I thinke
the lernyng might be good to tech obedience to princes ;
GARDIN,161.009.770

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I see it is not soo . GARDIN,161.009.771

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I sawe that parte more civile , more honest , more reasonable thenne
they wer wont to be , I might thinke the lernyng good for sumwhat in
this worlde ; GARDIN,161.009.772

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as for the worlde to cumme , I am sure it is nought ,
GARDIN,161.009.773

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is newe GARDIN,161.009.774

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and agreeth with noo religion that hath been established by God in the
Olde Testament or the Newe Testament . GARDIN,161.009.775

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A punishement it is , and a terrible punishement - to admonishe an
amendment . GARDIN,161.009.776

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And howe have we $been punished with the bestes {ED:i.e.,_beasts} of
that generation ! GARDIN,161.009.777

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Is not the Lansgrave a goodly champion of Christes Gospel , to worke
the feate he hath doon with us , with Verbum Domini wryten on his
mennes sleves ? GARDIN,161.009.778

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maye I not saye thusmoch to youe , who knowith the begynnyng of the
matier to have proceded thens and finally maynteyned thens by the
letters wherin was wryten cronorum ? Which worde howe I toke and what I
sayde youe canne tel , not by the spirite of prophetie to tel what
shuld cumme , but as my mynde gave me quodam animi presagio .
GARDIN,161.009.779

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} forget the olde Erle of Essex , Bowser ,
who was with my Lord Prince vij yeres past , whenne the ambassadours of
Saxe and Lansgrave wer sent to see my Lord Prince . At which tyme ,
whenne my Lord Prynce coulde not be brought to frame to loke upon those
embassadours and put forth his hand , for noo chering , dandelyng , and
flatering the nurse and Ladye Mastres coulde use , but my Lord Prince
ever cryed and turned awaye his face ; <P_162> and yet at the same tyme
, to accustume him to a sterne countenaunce and rowe gret berd , the
said Erle of Essex played with my Lord Prince , toke him by the hand ,
put his berde nere his face , which my Lord Prince toke pleasour in and
was ther with mery . GARDIN,162.009.780

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In thende , whenne thambassadours coulde have noon other sight of my
Lord Prince , for al the labours taken , my said Lord of Essex cam to
my Lord Prince GARDIN,162.009.781

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saide , ' Nowe , ful wel knowist thoue , ' quod he , ' that I am
thy fathers true manne and thyne , and thiese other be false knaves . '
GARDIN,162.009.782

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Such spech eskaped him sodenly , for which he might percace have been
thenne blamed of sum . GARDIN,162.009.783

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But as Pilate said , Quod scripsi scripsi . GARDIN,162.009.784

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord Prince , God save him , hath asmoch of his father , the Kinges
Highnes good nature as ever had any childe of his father ;
GARDIN,162.009.785

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therupon , a man might saye , was caused in my Lord Prince an
alienation in nature from them . GARDIN,162.009.786

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For I never sawe that the Kinges Highnes of himself had any affection
to them , GARDIN,162.009.787

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but hath ever wisely wayed and considered the natures of them , and
understanded them as right as any man coulde describe them .
GARDIN,162.009.788

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes , sum tyme of necessite , sum tyme of policie , hath wisely
used them , GARDIN,162.009.789

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sumtyme I knowe hath been enformed and told many gretter thinges of
them thenne have folowed . GARDIN,162.009.790

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What a god hath the Lansgrave been made , GARDIN,162.009.791

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
howmoch hath he been extolled ! GARDIN,162.009.792

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet , as ye may here by Monsieur de Prate , it is thought abrode ,
and we have gret lightlywodes to take it for truth , that the Lansgrave
hath wrought this matier . GARDIN,162.009.793

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I praye God send us a good ende of our Protestauntes .
GARDIN,162.009.794

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If they bringe us peace , I wyl thanke them for so moch ,
GARDIN,162.009.795

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but if they fayne tales and diffame us , as though they sawe apparaunce
that we shuld agree with them in opinions , and doo us noo good neyther
, thenne they shal serve us in ther feate as evel as Riffenberge doth
in his . GARDIN,162.009.796

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And suerly Riffenberges noughtynes cummyth the wurst to purpose that
might be , wherin the noughtynes is thers ; GARDIN,162.009.797

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yet it is noted in us , as the Civil Lawe callith it , quasi
delictum quod utamur opera malorum hominum . GARDIN,162.009.798

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lawe , si quis commendandi fraudati <em> ? </em> mandati , wold
cause the Lansgrave make good al . GARDIN,162.009.799

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But what boteth it to speke of lawe where reason faylith ?
GARDIN,162.009.800

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is a saying that nimium altercando veritas amittitur .
GARDIN,162.009.801

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo , with reasonyng , disputing , talking , jangling , warryng ,
fightyng , and stryvyng , truth , fayth , honestie , <P_163> reason ,
and al equite is worne and torne , GARDIN,163.009.802

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nedith a very true peace , outwardely and inwardely , to forge them
al again and coyne them with the right stampe ; GARDIN,163.009.803

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the world is nowe in a wonderful garboyle . GARDIN,163.009.804

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have finished myn answer to George Joye , GARDIN,163.009.805

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therin , I trust , declare that I have thought on other matiers
sumtyme thenne to be such oon as he notith me . GARDIN,163.009.806

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And although I goo not aboute to prove myself a saincte , for I have
made noo such outwarde visage of hypocrise , yet it shal appere am not
utterly a devel . GARDIN,163.009.807

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if I be a devyl , I am not of that kinde of develles that he notith
me of , and such other as have pleasour to have me soo spoken of .
GARDIN,163.009.808

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet that is not the purpose of my answer , but specially to declare
certayne thinges that nede declaration not unfrutefully .
GARDIN,163.009.809

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that booke I wryte to the worlde . GARDIN,163.009.810

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mary , to the booke of Lamentacion which youe sent me , I wyl oonly
answer lamentably to youe , and , lamentyng with youe , counforte
myself ; digesting in thiese letters so moch displeasour as I receyved
in reding of this most abhominable booke . GARDIN,163.009.811

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is the best pastyme I canne have here , whenne I have rydde the
buysines , which this matier shal not interrupte in my mynde .
GARDIN,163.009.812

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This letter hath neyther hast for life nor hast with diligence ,
GARDIN,163.009.813

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ye maye rede it to yourself at your laysour . GARDIN,163.009.814

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if ye reade it not , it makith noo matier ; GARDIN,163.009.815

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I take not my labour lost ; GARDIN,163.009.816

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is noo payne for me to wright , GARDIN,163.009.817

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I $never wrote somoch in a moneth as I have doon in $this ,
GARDIN,163.009.818

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I loke soo lustely , thankes be to God , that I talke shamfastely
of any sikenesse by the waye . GARDIN,163.009.819

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God make al that be syk , eyther-2 in body or soule , hol ,
GARDIN,163.009.820

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and send youe hartely wel to fare . GARDIN,163.009.821

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges the v=th= of Novembre . GARDIN,163.009.822

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,163.009.823

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir Wylliam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,163.009.824

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_009:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} At leysour . GARDIN,163.009.825

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_010> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_179>

{ED:83._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_7_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : By our letters
to the Kinges Majestie ye shal perceyve that hactenus bene se habent
principia . GARDIN,179.010.826

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We be fereful as a doo is that stayeth harkenyng to every crashe of a
bowe . GARDIN,179.010.827

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesternight we liked not that we harde not from them ,
GARDIN,179.010.828

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this mornyng they redubbed it with sending for us .
GARDIN,179.010.829

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My being here is set forth with a gret demonstracion outwardly ,
GARDIN,179.010.830

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for every daye hath had suam pompam . GARDIN,179.010.831

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wedonsday {ED:4_Nov.} we went to thEmperour . GARDIN,179.010.832

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thursdaye Grandvela , Praet , and Scory cam to us , which is notable .
GARDIN,179.010.833

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Frydaye we went to the Quene . And this daye to Grandvelas howse .
GARDIN,179.010.834

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And we to gither be conspicui , GARDIN,179.010.835

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and move with an honest companye . GARDIN,179.010.836

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the French men , they pourpose to outbrage us with numbre ;
GARDIN,179.010.837

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they cumme , as they saye , with vj=c= {ED:600} horse .
GARDIN,179.010.838

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A mery felowe was with me GARDIN,179.010.839

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tolde me they had nede soo , GARDIN,179.010.840

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for oon Englisheman was worth vj French men , both-1 in warre and peax
. GARDIN,179.010.841

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They cumme al in blak for duel of the Duke of Orlyaunce ,
GARDIN,179.010.842

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thinke Pasquillus , if he be mery , wyl saye they cumme soo
prostrate , pulla veste , to seke peace . GARDIN,179.010.843

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretarye , if we take peace nowe , we establishe the
valyauntenesse of Englond for ever ; GARDIN,179.010.844

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
if we leave game nowe , we be wonderful wynners , GARDIN,179.010.845

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we be estemed to have treasure infinite , and to excede al other in
valyantnesse . GARDIN,179.010.846

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here was with me to visite me the Marques de Terra Nova , with a good
meany Italyans , that had great pleasour to talke with me howe we have
skourged the Frenchmen , and howe we paye our men and the Frenchemen
doo not . GARDIN,179.010.847

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They saye we have doon the French men more hurte in oon yere thenne
thEmperour hath doon in al his warres . GARDIN,179.010.848

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If we leave nowe , we shal wynne this opinion , that we leave required
and desired , and might doo what we lyste , wer it not for respecte the
Kinges Majestie hath to Cristendom . GARDIN,179.010.849

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne soever the Kinges Majestie shuld thinke good to leave Bolen
, it shuld not be thought it wer bycause we coulde not kepe it , but
bicause his Highnes wold <P_180> not . GARDIN,180.010.850

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In this opinion be we abrode in the worlde nowe , GARDIN,180.010.851

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this opinion may be maynteyned by a peace ; GARDIN,180.010.852

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by continuaunce in warre , which is chaungeable , maye be hindred .
GARDIN,180.010.853

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the French men , as they hate us naturally , being ther squorge ,
and as the boye hateth the rodde , soo if we cam by any meanes to an
afterdel , they wold handel us strangely . GARDIN,180.010.854

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I esteme nothing Bolen in comparyson of the mastery we have wonne in
kepyng of it , and defendyng our realme alone . GARDIN,180.010.855

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Bolen in processe may be lost many wayes ; GARDIN,180.010.856

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the name , fame , honnour , and renowne goten by it canne never decaye
, if it be nowe established by a peax . GARDIN,180.010.857

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They saye that an Englishe man in al feates excellith , if he coulde
leave whenne it is wel , which they cal tollere manum de tabula .
GARDIN,180.010.858

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if Riffemberges lewdnesse maye be an occasion to accelerate a peax
, wherby to eskape the thrawldam to such noughty mennes service , we
shal saye , Diligentibus Deum omnia cooperantur in bonum
{ED:Rom._viii,_28} . GARDIN,180.010.859

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the desire I shewe to have to peax I make noo foundacion nowe of our
wantes at hom , nor of other inconveniences , GARDIN,180.010.860

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but having harde yesterdaye at dyner somoch honnour spoken of us , and
also by the Italyans , I am afrayde of further warre , for losing any
peace of it . GARDIN,180.010.861

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French King told me oones , whenne I had commission to exhorte hym
to doo as he was bounde to do by his treatie , and added that it was
honnourable for hym to doo as I required hym , that is to saye , to
delyver the traytour Pole , and not to regarde the saufconduyte which
he said he had graunted , which he might not graunte by his treatie -
to stop my mouth he said I coulde noo skyl of prynces honnours , with
such a facion and gesture as I was fayne to hold my peace ;
GARDIN,180.010.862

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo dyd , GARDIN,180.010.863

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and left that worde , GARDIN,180.010.864

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and entred with hym in the matier an other waye ; GARDIN,180.010.865

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yet I spake truth . GARDIN,180.010.866

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Admyral wyl be here this night , GARDIN,180.010.867

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thEmperour goth hens upon Thursdaye to Andwerp , and from thens to
Utrek . GARDIN,180.010.868

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How thinges wyl prove here ye shal see shortly ; GARDIN,180.010.869

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I praye youe remembre to procure advertisement to us of the Kinges
Majesties pleasure howe to answer the Frenchmen , if they make offre of
mediation to thEmperour , wherby to seme to remitte any thing to his
arbytrement , and to instructe us soo fully as may be .
GARDIN,180.010.870

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wryte long bablyng letters to youe to provoke youe to take the more
payne by myn example . GARDIN,180.010.871

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye have many moo to wryte unto , GARDIN,180.010.872

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I remembre not that nowe . GARDIN,180.010.873

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I bydde youe hartely fare wel , having not yet dronken this daye ;
having made profession <P_181> that I wyl serve the Kinges Majestie
bifore I serve myself in this tyme of hast . GARDIN,181.010.874

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray youe forget not my commendations . GARDIN,181.010.875

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo again fare ye wel . GARDIN,181.010.876

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges , the vij=th= of Novembre . GARDIN,181.010.877

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your $assured loving frende , Ste. Winton GARDIN,181.010.878

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_010:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,181.010.879

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_011> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_181>

{ED:84._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_4_p.m.,_11_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : In our long
letter to the Kinges Highnes ye shal perceyve our talke with the French
men and howe spedely the Chaunceler coulde forge a lye to tel a tale of
lending of money , wherin he tented me wonderfully to answer sumwhat
more rowndely thenne I did ; GARDIN,181.011.880

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but bicause I knewe him sumtyme for a Lutherian , and was wel
acquaynted with hym in Fraunce , and nowe and thenne disputed togither
, and if I had fallen out with hym nowe he wold have said it had been
for that . GARDIN,181.011.881

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But howe constantely he affermed a lye for a trewe tale ,
GARDIN,181.011.882

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and howe fayne I wold $have talked with hym as I have doon , upon like
occasion , with the Cardynal of Bellaye ! GARDIN,181.011.883

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I refrayned GARDIN,181.011.884

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ever avoyded the geving chek , GARDIN,181.011.885

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave oonly a bare mate without any chek ; wherin I pleased myself ,
GARDIN,181.011.886

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thEmperours Counsayl marveyled , I thinke , GARDIN,181.011.887

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for al the protestacions wer made for me in the begynnyng .
GARDIN,181.011.888

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne the Admyral founde his expectacion deceyved in me , he made
moch of me , GARDIN,181.011.889

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath sent Bayard to me . Which Bayarde , in speking of himself ,
swore to me he coulde not endure to make a lye , GARDIN,181.011.890

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his nature wold not bere to counterfete soo ; GARDIN,181.011.891

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet , at his being with me , in the same communication he bare me
wrong in <P_182> hand . GARDIN,182.011.892

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But he yelded in it ; soo as , bylike , he canne make a lye but he wyl
not byde by it . GARDIN,182.011.893

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In ernest , he is very wise , very sobre , and , as went from him by
stertes , by conjecture , seen in good lernyng . GARDIN,182.011.894

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He spake sumtyme Laten , for his purpose apte , apposite , et eleganti
pronunciacione . GARDIN,182.011.895

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is coleryk and , in his angre , with auctorite annexed , very stowte
, as they cal hym ; GARDIN,182.011.896

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I thinke they have noo man canne speke more ne better in ther
affayres thenne he canne . GARDIN,182.011.897

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is an nother manner of man thenne the Chaunceler .
GARDIN,182.011.898

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We spake of the matiers playnly and rowndely , GARDIN,182.011.899

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he and I be entred sufficiently to continue or renewe this practise
of peace . GARDIN,182.011.900

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Protestantes , as he sayth , warrantith the conclusion of the peax
there . GARDIN,182.011.901

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If it soo be , it is wel ; GARDIN,182.011.902

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but otherwise they hindre mervelously our matiers ; GARDIN,182.011.903

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for these men shewe thEmperour al . GARDIN,182.011.904

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I noted that they made in ther prefaces somoch of thEmperour , and
, specially the Chaunceler , calling him the high power ;
GARDIN,182.011.905

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor , to prove bellum iustum ab auctoritate , I named to him
thEmperour to be the high power also , as ye may marke in our letters .
GARDIN,182.011.906

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Ferrares brother , the Cardynal of Ferrare , with whom I
had acquayntaunce , being in Fraunce , wylled oon that cummyth hither
with the Admyral , called Alexander , to repare to me and to make his
commendations to me , and , on his bihaulf , to desire me to make his
most humble commendacions to the Kinges Majestie , to whom he berith
his service , as he sayth , for the honnour it hath pleased his Highnes
to doo to his howse of Ferrare in tymes past . GARDIN,182.011.907

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In your last letters ye spake a doubtful worde of my long taryng here ,
wherof I praye youe send me sum playn further knowledge , that I may
use myself therafter , GARDIN,182.011.908

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have here noo horses , GARDIN,182.011.909

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I wyl accommodate myself oonly to serve and to obey tanquam lutum
in manu figuli {ED:Jer._xviii,_6} . GARDIN,182.011.910

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} promyse to bring anything to passe , but to
serve as I am bydden . GARDIN,182.011.911

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That I canne doo , GARDIN,182.011.912

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therin shal want noo good wyl . GARDIN,182.011.913

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the treatye of peace with Fraunce $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} here , I
praye youe remembre to sende hither the copye of the French Kinges
letter , if ye have it , and the copye of the wryting obligatory for
repayment of $CCCCL=M= {ED:450,000} crownes in casu cessationis
solutionis $pensionum , GARDIN,182.011.914

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I praye youe sollicite a spedy resolution to us .
GARDIN,182.011.915

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yester night supped with me the Countie de Bures , Monsieur de
Hocstrate , and a grete meany ; soo as , besides a smal tyme of slepe ,
<P_183> I have not ceased talking and wryting synes yesterdaye thre of
the clok , GARDIN,183.011.916

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nowe I make an ende with youe , being yet fasting ;
GARDIN,183.011.917

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bydde youe hartely fare wel . GARDIN,183.011.918

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges the xj=th= of Novembre , at iiij at afternone .
GARDIN,183.011.919

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,183.011.920

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send youe the coppye of a letter of the Lansgraves , as it was
delyvered me by Monsieur de Burez , GARDIN,183.011.921

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I canne get noo man to tel me what it meanith ; GARDIN,183.011.922

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ye shal get sumbody there . GARDIN,183.011.923

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sende youe herwith the copye of the French Kinges commission , which
we have compared with thoriginal . GARDIN,183.011.924

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_011:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,183.011.925

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_012> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_185>

{ED:86._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_13_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : I am very moch
troubled with the state of our affayres ; GARDIN,185.012.926

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for albeit whenne I am in England I canne quiet myself with speking of
my mynde ; whenne I am called and doing faythefully therin , and
attending diligently to be redy too doo as I am commaunded , I trouble
not myself with other divises ; GARDIN,185.012.927

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet whenne I am appointed to this place , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
forbere ne hold my penne styl , but , as my mynde is encombred with the
matiers , soo to be buysy in wryting and divisyng . GARDIN,185.012.928

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I consider that we be in warre with Fraunce and Scotland ;
GARDIN,185.012.929

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we have an enemyte with the Bishop of Rome ; GARDIN,185.012.930

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we have no frendshippe assured here ; GARDIN,185.012.931

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we have receyved such displeasour of the Lansgrave , chief captayne of
the Protestantes , that he hath cause to thinke we be angrye with hym ;
GARDIN,185.012.932

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
our warre is noysom to the welth of our owne realme ,
GARDIN,185.012.933

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it is soo noysom to al marchauntes that must trafique by us and
passe the narowe sees as they crye out here wonderfully .
GARDIN,185.012.934

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herwith we see at hom a gret apparaunce of lak of such <P_186> thinges
as the continuaunce of warre necessaryly requireth . GARDIN,186.012.935

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne , to put awaye this warre , we shewe ourself content to take
a peace , we maye have it , but soo miserable , to saye truth , as the
French men offre it , that therby the Kinges Majesties noble courage
shuld be soo touched as we ought to feare the daungier of his person ,
after soo long travayl in honnour , in rule , and governement of the
worlde , to syt styl with such a peace as to rendre Bolen and let the
Scottes alone , oonly for a lytel money , not payde but promysed .
GARDIN,186.012.936

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I calle two myllyons a lytel money to us that have spent fyve .
GARDIN,186.012.937

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , as the worlde is nowe facioned , I wot not what counforte we
shuld take in promyses , be they never soo assured by bandes of
marchauntes or hostages , of which two , as we stand , hostages be best
, GARDIN,186.012.938

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they be casual and sumtyme not moch regarded , as we have seen
experience in our tyme in Fraunce with thEmperour , and in Scotland
with us . GARDIN,186.012.939

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the French King shuld have nede of money for a feate , he wold be
bold of his hostages . GARDIN,186.012.940

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for merchauntes bandes , $they must depende upon thexecution of
justice , which may be letted by many pretences , and specially if by a
Counsayl , as they wold cal it General , al bandes and obligations
might be , in al courtes of justice , by this exception avoyded , that
they adhere not to that Counsayl . GARDIN,186.012.941

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the French men wer very like to procure such a clause in the
conclusion of the Counsayl , that al such as dyd not adhere to that
Counsayl and communicate with it in religion and opinion , shuld not
communicate in administracion of justice with those that adhere to the
same . GARDIN,186.012.942

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And albeit in pactions and convenauntes ther shuld be articles divised
to the contrary , yet if such a Counsayl cam to passe , it wer to be
feared they wold , by a non obstante , take that remedye awaye ,
alleging that noo princes may particulerly and aparte soo bynde
themself as by a General Counsayl maye not be considred and refourmed .
GARDIN,186.012.943

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And we be nowe in a worlde where reason prevayleth not , lernyng
prevaylith not , convenauntes be not soo regarded , but the lest
pretense suffiseth to avoyde thobservation of them . GARDIN,186.012.944

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is an other maner of matier thenne where I played Periplectomenus
, youe Miliphidippa , and my Lord Chaunceler Palestrio ,
GARDIN,186.012.945

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet our parties be in this tragedie that nowe is in hand .
GARDIN,186.012.946

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If we thre shuld nowe sitte together and take counsayl what wer to be
doon , as we did in the comedye , we shuld not be a litel troubled ,
and Palestrio fayne to muse longer for compassing <P_187> of this
matier and seding of it , as the poete callith it , thenne he did there
. GARDIN,187.012.947

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For if we shuld conclude to embrace the peace as necessary for itself ,
upon such reasons as the state of the realme wold ministre , whenne we
shuld , according to our dueties , remembre the state of the Kinges
Majesties person , whom , if we preserve not asmoch as lyeth in us ,
with continuaunce and mayntenaunce of his honnour , to the repose of
his mynde , for prorogation of his life tyl my Lord Prince may cumme to
mannes astate , the decaye of his Majesties person bifore that tyme
shuld be more ruine to the realme thenne any warre coulde engendre . In
consideration herof we must saye , Fye of such a peace as might be soo
displeasaunte . GARDIN,187.012.948

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet in the warre is miserie . GARDIN,187.012.949

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Youe wyl saye percace , the Kinges Majestie , for his gret wisedom ,
canne digeste the displeasour and content himself with necessite of the
matier , and willingly contempne his owne honnour for the wealth and
preservation of the realme ; or elles , for his gret lernyng ,
understand that to be most honnorable that is most expedient for the
realme . GARDIN,187.012.950

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thinke noo prince in Christendom coulde excede his Highnes in thiese
considerations , GARDIN,187.012.951

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thenne sum doubte wyl arrise in expoundyng of ' expedient . '
GARDIN,187.012.952

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne a prince , that hath been dred and feared of his neighbours
, shuld be brought in to such cace as he shal not be feared , but lesse
regarded thenne he hath ben , I feare me that shal not be thought
expedient . GARDIN,187.012.953

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And howe soever it shuld be called , I thinke neyther your harte ne
myne could endure to see it . GARDIN,187.012.954

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This matier shuld here be releaved in reason , GARDIN,187.012.955

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but standing the treating here bytwen them and Fraunce , if that take
effecte , as it is to be feared it shal , I thinke it but a vayne hope
that thEmperour wyl eclarsye and accomplishe the treatie as we wold
have it . GARDIN,187.012.956

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If thEmperour agree with Fraunce , he wyl not entre warre for our sake
as he ought to doo ; GARDIN,187.012.957

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he wyl not comprehende Bolen and Bulloignois as we desire ;
GARDIN,187.012.958

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and howe he wyl encrease his bonde to us by obligacion of his townes
and othirwise , as is divised , it is to be doubted .
GARDIN,187.012.959

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
With the Protestantes I see not what auctorite or feare canne be
encreased to us in the worlde , but oonly corruption of the Kinges
Majesties realme with ther most abhominable and monstrose opinions .
GARDIN,187.012.960

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne we shuld have cause to be wery of them al , as we have nowe
cause to deteste the Lansgrave , we coulde not soo shortly wype out
ther opinions , which engendre a worse warre in mennes hartes thenne
any other warre canne be , and more to be feared thenne any other warre
is . GARDIN,187.012.961

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thiese Protestantes <P_188> be entangled with thre encombres ; that
is to saye , with povertie , with subjection in duetie to hym they
resist , thEmperour , and with want of credite and truste .
GARDIN,188.012.962

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Non Appollinis responsum magis est verum {ED:Terence,_Andria,_698} , as
he said ; GARDIN,188.012.963

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we have prouf by experience et crimine ab uno disce omnes
{ED:Aeneid,_II,_65} . GARDIN,188.012.964

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They trouble the worlde as promoters of Goddes quarel ,
GARDIN,188.012.965

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whenne they have putte in a wrong information , as Weple hath
sumtyme doon in thExchequer for the King , thenne they shal , as Weple
hath doon , make an agrement for ther commodite and fal in a non sute
of ther information . GARDIN,188.012.966

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They $can $not {TEXT:cannot} continue ne prosper , but wrangle to
trouble themself and other . GARDIN,188.012.967

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as in a mach of shoting , of hym that is an evel shote it is sayd
he is good to pul down a syde , soo be they good to undoo a prince that
shuld take them to his matche and frendship . GARDIN,188.012.968

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They use al thinges to make money on . GARDIN,188.012.969

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye God they have doon noo hurte in treating bytwen the French King
and us . GARDIN,188.012.970

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeit , howe that matier goth youe canne tel better thenne I ,
GARDIN,188.012.971

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therat I doo but gesse , GARDIN,188.012.972

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wold mervel if the French King wold offre us a better bargayn by
them thenne by the Admyral , who , Bayard sayde , is the Kinges breste
. GARDIN,188.012.973

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I told him merely {ED:i.e.,_merrily} again that he was a breste also ,
as I harde saye . GARDIN,188.012.974

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He smyled at it GARDIN,188.012.975

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and forsware it not ; GARDIN,188.012.976

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in dede I have harde that he is Madame dEstampes breste .
GARDIN,188.012.977

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I promyse youe Bayarde is a stowte felawe GARDIN,188.012.978

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold fayne have a peax , to the contentacion of his master ;
GARDIN,188.012.979

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo wold we . GARDIN,188.012.980

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But howe shal it be , if the French King be thus stobernly set , and
carith not to overthrowe al the worlde for to obteyne his fansye ?
GARDIN,188.012.981

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howe hath he styrred the worlde for Myllayn ! GARDIN,188.012.982

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And let us certaynly loke that he wyl move against us asmoch as may be
, not with directe force ; GARDIN,188.012.983

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet Bayard said oones that the French King might trouble the yerth
over Bolen , as the Turke is wont to wynne townes , GARDIN,188.012.984

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he prayed us by and by not to take it as a thretenyng ,
GARDIN,188.012.985

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the French King wold wynne it nowe of the Kinges Majestie by amytie
, if he might , with intercession and request . GARDIN,188.012.986

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But thiese fayre wordes , whenne they appere frustrate , wyl engendre
spyteful dedes , if there maye be opportunite and place .
GARDIN,188.012.987

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye wyl aske me thenne : What shal the Kinges Majestie doo ?
GARDIN,188.012.988

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Shal he take these base and unsure conditions of peax ?
GARDIN,188.012.989

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dare not but saye , Naye ; GARDIN,188.012.990

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I feare a myscontentement of the Kinges Majestie to folowe it .
GARDIN,188.012.991

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What meane I <P_189> thenne ? GARDIN,189.012.992

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To continue in warre styl ? GARDIN,189.012.993

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herin I saye this , that he that wold move the Kinges Majestie to
continue in werre alone against Fraunce and Scotland , thEmperour being
a doubteful frende , shuld not wel consider the preservation of the
Kinges Majesties honnour and astate . GARDIN,189.012.994

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet , ye wyl saye , eyther we must take such a peace as we canne
get or , of necessite , continue in wer ; GARDIN,189.012.995

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there is noo thirde waye . GARDIN,189.012.996

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye saye truth ; GARDIN,189.012.997

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the other two wayes , wherof oon must nedes be , be soo terrible to
advise in as I thinke noo man dare speke on this or that side , if he
have noo better stomake thenne I have . GARDIN,189.012.998

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have wryten to youe vehemently for peace , GARDIN,189.012.999

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have noted the sentence of oon that said the worst peace is
better thenne the beste warre ; GARDIN,189.012.1000

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the peace the French men nowe offre is soo far under foote in the
first apparaunce , and hath such a feare of the unsure observation of
the conditions , as I have bifore said , that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
take any counforte in it . GARDIN,189.012.1001

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On the other parte , warre , if thEmperour slyppe from us or be not
with us , wherof I feare , and styl to werre alone , $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} like me neyther ; GARDIN,189.012.1002

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thinke myslyketh a gret meany - and al <paren> those oonly except
that $can $not {TEXT:cannot} lyve without it </paren> .
GARDIN,189.012.1003

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God graunte the Kinges Majestie to chose the best of thiese two
extremites ; GARDIN,189.012.1004

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that shal I further and take for the best , and travayl soo far as
I canne and am commaunded . GARDIN,189.012.1005

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Saincte Pol wisheth to be anathema pro fratribus , and I , to doo
service to the Kinges Majestie , GARDIN,189.012.1006

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold smally regarde myself . GARDIN,189.012.1007

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I speke not this for flatering , GARDIN,189.012.1008

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I am past it , GARDIN,189.012.1009

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I never used it , GARDIN,189.012.1010

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I knowe my duetie , GARDIN,189.012.1011

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I knowe of what importaunce the Kinges $Majesties person is to the
realme ; GARDIN,189.012.1012

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I feare displeasour of adversite in age <paren> whenne reputacion
shuld worthely encrease </paren> to be anything towched .
GARDIN,189.012.1013

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I feare in vayne , there is noo body hurte but myself ;
GARDIN,189.012.1014

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shal praye God it maye soo cumme to passe . GARDIN,189.012.1015

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am here to get knowlege , GARDIN,189.012.1016

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and al is here hydden . GARDIN,189.012.1017

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This derke wurking is sum tyme more terrible thenne nedith .
GARDIN,189.012.1018

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I remembre Skepperus , who hath told me twyes howe thEmperour wyl
nowe tentare extrema against the Protestantes ; GARDIN,189.012.1019

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if the French King fal in with thEmperour , that matier is suerly a
parte of ther agrement ; in which cace we $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
coldly harde of thEmperour , oonles the Kinges Majestie shuld joyne
that wayes also ; GARDIN,189.012.1020

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thenne oon parte of ther matier is such as we maye <P_190> not
speke in it . GARDIN,190.012.1021

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the French King , knowing this affection of thEmperour , hath made
thEmperour byleve hymself , the French King , may have better
conditions of peax of us by the Protestantes meane thenne by his .
GARDIN,190.012.1022

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus be thinges entangled . GARDIN,190.012.1023

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus we be in a labyrinth . GARDIN,190.012.1024

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Every thing that wer good to be doon hath an overthwarte matier annexed
unto it . GARDIN,190.012.1025

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Peace is good , GARDIN,190.012.1026

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it hath such basse and unsure conditions for thobservation that
they deface it . GARDIN,190.012.1027

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To agree with thEmperour for repressing of the Protestantes , upon this
occasion geven us by the Lansgrave , wer good to allure thEmperour , if
anything wold allure hym ; GARDIN,190.012.1028

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thenne ther is an other matier sayeth naye . GARDIN,190.012.1029

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Warre for mayntenaunce of that the Kinges Majestie hath goten wer not
evel ; GARDIN,190.012.1030

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thenne to continue warre alone in soo many places , with such
unfaythful soulgiers as we $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} enforced to use ,
wyl consume and devour that we wold defende , and our own also .
GARDIN,190.012.1031

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Expedi hec et eris mihi magnus Apollo {ED:Virgil,_Ecl.,_iii,_104} .
GARDIN,190.012.1032

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I bidde youe hartely fare wel . GARDIN,190.012.1033

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have wryten youe a long letter of probable reasons ;
GARDIN,190.012.1034

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
whenne ye have harde al , ye ar never the wiser , but rather brought in
a more perplexite thenne {in}_P ye wer bifore . GARDIN,190.012.1035

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges the xiij=th= of Novembre . GARDIN,190.012.1036

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I make youe an accounpte of my pastyme , GARDIN,190.012.1037

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
muse in the night , GARDIN,190.012.1038

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wryte in the daye , whenne I am at laysour from talking and a lytel
reding . GARDIN,190.012.1039

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,190.012.1040

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipfull Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
one of the Kinges Majesties two Principall Secretaries .
GARDIN,190.012.1041

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_012:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} Rede this at leysour . GARDIN,190.012.1042

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_013> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_191>

{ED:87._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Bruges,_14_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : I thanke youe
for your gentyl confortable letters , which I receyved yesterdaye ,
wherin ye make noo mention of our depech on Saturdaye {ED:7_Nov.} .
GARDIN,191.013.1043

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our letters by Nicolas wer not soo pleasaunt as I wold have wished ,
GARDIN,191.013.1044

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I was yesterdaye al malencoly GARDIN,191.013.1045

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had noo remedye but make a purgation in a letter , which I neded
not have doon , if I had knowen somoch as I knowe nowe .
GARDIN,191.013.1046

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send it youe bycause ye want redyng , GARDIN,191.013.1047

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whenne ye have doon I praye youe throwe it in the fyre .
GARDIN,191.013.1048

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am wondrous desirous of peace , GARDIN,191.013.1049

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I assure youe I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} awaye with al to leve Bolen
as the French men wold have it , as ye shal perceyve by my malencolye
letters . GARDIN,191.013.1050

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this daye I am wel chered , GARDIN,191.013.1051

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Grandvela spekith in special termes ; GARDIN,191.013.1052

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , on the other side , the Chaunceler of Fraunce , for old special
acquayntaunce , desireth to speke with me . GARDIN,191.013.1053

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Quene of Hungarye hath this night invited me to suppe with hir
tomorowe at night . GARDIN,191.013.1054

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French ambassadours dyne there , GARDIN,191.013.1055

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we shal have the supper . GARDIN,191.013.1056

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And joyning herwith the good contentacion of the Kinges Majestie with
our doinges , signified yesternight , I am the meter to make mery
tomorowe at night . GARDIN,191.013.1057

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe consider in the reading of the notes upon the vij=th=
article , that those wordes which they like not here be not for us soo
material in my jugement . GARDIN,191.013.1058

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They wer , and ye remembre , divised by Skepperus ; GARDIN,191.013.1059

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we have not relented in them , but oonly noted what they saye to
that we had noted . GARDIN,191.013.1060

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And nowe ye see there wherat they wyl by al lykelehode sumwhat styk
here , ye maye waye of what importaunce they be , and consider whither
the vj article , obteyned in a good forme wherwith to discorage the
French men to styk at Bolen , contrevayleth the rest that they wold
styk at here . GARDIN,191.013.1061

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Me thinketh the vj=th= article is al for our purpose nowe ;
GARDIN,191.013.1062

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for <P_192> the French men shal have a very inequal warre to travayl
for Bolen without daring make any enterprise upon our peaces to revenge
themself , and to be restrayned from geving money to the Scottes to
invade us , for feare of bringing thEmperour in to warre against them .
GARDIN,192.013.1063

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is not the best ; GARDIN,192.013.1064

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for that is peace ; GARDIN,192.013.1065

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I shal speke nowe like noo cowarte . GARDIN,192.013.1066

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I had rather be kylled in warre thenne dye in a languishing displeasour
of an evel favored peace . GARDIN,192.013.1067

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I had moch a doo in this matier yesterdaye , as ye shal see by my
letters , which I praye youe burne . GARDIN,192.013.1068

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wyl spare noo postes nor wryting . GARDIN,192.013.1069

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wyl make youe wery of redyng . GARDIN,192.013.1070

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye God the Protestantes doo noo hurte ; wherin I proteste I speke
of noo affection of mynde , but as reason leadith me .
GARDIN,192.013.1071

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In this enterteynement thEmperour seeth his subgettes ministres
compared with his person , and soo contende with hym , as they have the
same matier in hand that he hath , with a noyse and brute that they
shal mediate that he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} . GARDIN,192.013.1072

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neyther he nor his Counsayl spake of it tyl nowe ; GARDIN,192.013.1073

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but nowe they did . GARDIN,192.013.1074

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If peace folowe to our welth and benefite , al is wel ;
GARDIN,192.013.1075

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
other respectes shal blowe over ; GARDIN,192.013.1076

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but if they doo us noo good therin , they have doon us asmoch hurte in
ther feate as the Lansgrave hath in his demeanour in recommending
Riffenberge and using him as he hath doon , to doo us noo service and
doo us contumelie it mysusing the commissaryes . GARDIN,192.013.1077

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ThEmperour goth not hens soo sone as was thought he wolde .
GARDIN,192.013.1078

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Diverse vayne brutes have been here spred abrode of the cummyng hither
of the French Quene or sending the French Kinges doughter ;
GARDIN,192.013.1079

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they have noo foundation . GARDIN,192.013.1080

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French man that cam to require an howre of meting betwixt the
Chaunceler and me spake of them as fond tales , GARDIN,192.013.1081

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo he called them . GARDIN,192.013.1082

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shal have a gret gesse , in commenyng with the Chaunceler tomorowe ,
howe ther thinges goo with thEmperour . GARDIN,192.013.1083

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shal advertise incontinently . GARDIN,192.013.1084

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here hath been soo buysy working bytwen thEmperours Counsayl and
thambassadours of Fraunce , and soo secrete that I fansyed , as I wrote
in our letters to the Kinges Majestie , that the Protestantes pulled at
thEmperour to brynge him neare the French King and we pulled the French
King nere thEmperour . GARDIN,192.013.1085

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whiles we wer pullyng , thEmperours Counsayl and the French
ambassadours wer gluyng of them togither by ther communication .
GARDIN,192.013.1086

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But by like the glewe pot is not throughly hote . GARDIN,192.013.1087

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shal knowe more tomorowe and soo <P_193> advertise .
GARDIN,193.013.1088

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I bydde youe fare wel . GARDIN,193.013.1089

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bruges , the xiiij=th= of Novembre , at ix of the clok at night .
GARDIN,193.013.1090

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,193.013.1091

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Sir Wylliam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,193.013.1092

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} Hast , GARDIN,193.013.1093

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hast , GARDIN,193.013.1094

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hast , GARDIN,193.013.1095

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hast for thy life , for thy life . GARDIN,193.013.1096

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_013:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe dispache my servaunt again , as ye have doon thother .
GARDIN,193.013.1097

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_014> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_198>

{ED:91._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Antwerp,_20_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : By our commen
letters , ye shal perceyve the state of the maryages entended ; wherin
ye maye considre whither the mariage by them offered wold stand us in
as good stede for our purpose as that we desired with thEmperour .
GARDIN,198.014.1098

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youe canne tel what I meane . GARDIN,198.014.1099

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the Kinges Majestie thinkith Bolen soo necessary , it is a worldly
thing , GARDIN,198.014.1100

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thenne remembre this conclusion , that worldly thinges require
other worldly thinges for ther mayntenaunce . GARDIN,198.014.1101

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is a truth infallible . GARDIN,198.014.1102

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lesse a man hath , the lesse he nedeth other helpe , and , by that
proportion , the more , the more helpe . GARDIN,198.014.1103

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I knowe this truth by lernyng and by experience in myself .
GARDIN,198.014.1104

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I maye wryte , as they doo upon medicines , probatum est .
GARDIN,198.014.1105

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al they that made of me bifore I was bishop , required of me to make of
them after I was bishop , as though I beganne thenne to have nede of
them . GARDIN,198.014.1106

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a good felawe in Cambredge , wel lerned , that for his
pleasour maynteyned in communication this paradoxe , that encrease of
worldly thinges make men poore and not riche , bicause every worldly
thing hath a nede annexed unto it . GARDIN,198.014.1107

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If sum in England red this , they wold by and by saye it wer wel doon ,
if this be trewe , to make bishoppes riche , if worldly thinges make
them pore . GARDIN,198.014.1108

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But yet to the purpose again : GARDIN,198.014.1109

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
of Bolen I dare affirme nothing , GARDIN,198.014.1110

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but am therin academicus . GARDIN,198.014.1111

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if we kepe it , we must , besides al other forces , have outwarde
reputacion by frendship abrode . GARDIN,198.014.1112

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Monsieur Skepperus cam even nowe to us GARDIN,198.014.1113

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shewed us howe they have been in Counsayl al this daye for our
matiers , GARDIN,198.014.1114

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tomorowe in <P_199> the mornyng Skepper wyl retourne and shewe us
in wryting what they saye in our matiers ; which we shal thenne send ,
and not differre this post , bicause we thinke the significacion of the
matier of the mariages not mete to be delayed . GARDIN,199.014.1115

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the Quenes servaunt bring the Kinges Majestie a present of hawkes ,
I praye youe remembre what rewarde the Quene gave my servauntes for the
howndes , wherof I have wryten . GARDIN,199.014.1116

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We be in gret expectacion to here sumwhat from youe , at the lest of
tharryval of our letters . GARDIN,199.014.1117

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus fare ye hartely wel . GARDIN,199.014.1118

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Antwerp , the xx=ti= of Novembre . GARDIN,199.014.1119

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,199.014.1120

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_014:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipfull Sir Wylliam Paget , Knight ,
one of the Kinges Majesties two principall Secretaries .
GARDIN,199.014.1121

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_015> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_201>

{ED:93._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Antwerp,_25_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : As I conjecture
by your advertisement of the meating of youe and the Frenchmen there ,
whenne we have ended ye begynne ; GARDIN,201.015.1122

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for even this daye thAdmyral departeth hens , GARDIN,201.015.1123

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this daye ye shuld mete , as I take it . GARDIN,201.015.1124

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God send youe better spede thenne hath been here , GARDIN,201.015.1125

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or elles there is a gret deale of labour lost in that mater .
GARDIN,201.015.1126

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French men have been al wayes assayed here if they wold leave Bolen
. GARDIN,201.015.1127

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They have sum counforte to obteyne it , as ye shal see by Maverlies
spech to me . GARDIN,201.015.1128

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I feare me the Protestantes have been very bold in it , to get themself
such auctorite as to noyse abrode that they have such reputacion as
they be able to mayne thinges that be desperate at thEmperours hande ,
and to contende with hym in it . GARDIN,201.015.1129

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the Germaynes Protestantes maye establishe that auctorite to be
mediatours <P_202> bytwen princes , thenne they begynne to joyne
worldly auctorite to ther Gospel , and playe the bishop of Romes parte
, which if they doo as faythfully as he did , by bearing in hand ,
thenne hath they his office upsy downe . GARDIN,202.015.1130

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The French trust that the Protestantes shal doo them good ,
GARDIN,202.015.1131

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it maye percase turne clere contrary , as many worldly practises
doo . GARDIN,202.015.1132

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If they may be occasion to us of peax , or pryk thiese men forward ,
thenne they doo us sum good ; GARDIN,202.015.1133

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
if not , they have doon us percace moch hurte , with ther being in hand
to compasse matiers directe vel indirecte . GARDIN,202.015.1134

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shal soon see howe thinges wyl goo , GARDIN,202.015.1135

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I chalenge of youe to here sumwhat . GARDIN,202.015.1136

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo byd youe hartely fare wel . GARDIN,202.015.1137

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Antwerpe , the xxv of Novembre . GARDIN,202.015.1138

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youe must remembre our recommendations to my Lord of Duresme and Master
Tregonnel . GARDIN,202.015.1139

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,202.015.1140

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This berer is dispached for noo further thenne Calays ,
GARDIN,202.015.1141

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor youe must send the letters in to England .
GARDIN,202.015.1142

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,202.015.1143

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} Master Secretary , I pray youe send hom Monsieur
Skepperus letters for the merchauntes matiers . GARDIN,202.015.1144

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have joyned complaynte of our in Spayne , and promised to send this
. GARDIN,202.015.1145

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We be not yet answerd in thother , GARDIN,202.015.1146

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but nowe at dyner we shal speke with Skepperus . GARDIN,202.015.1147

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_015:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ENDORSED:} The Bisshop of Winchestre to Master Secretary , Master
Paget , xxv=o= Novembris , 1545 . GARDIN,202.015.1148

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_016> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_202>

{ED:94._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Antwerp,_26_November,_1545}

<P_203>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : This daye I
receyved your letters , GARDIN,203.016.1149

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and perceyve ye have not yet met with the French men , who , if they be
as obstinate as they wer here , ye are like to spede , as I thinke ,
noo better thenne we have doon in that matier ; wherof I shal be sory .
GARDIN,203.016.1150

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shal in our letters to the Kinges Highnes see sum cause of the
Frenchmens being here besides ours , GARDIN,203.016.1151

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thinke thEmperours Counsayl hath told us the truth of the matier
which hath been here treated . GARDIN,203.016.1152

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But whither the being of Grandvela and Scory with the French
ambassadours at the tyme of ther departure wer oonly to require an
answer for Heding , that may be doubted ; and soo moch the more if
thEmperour fortune not to goo to Utrik , but take his journey in to
Almayne by Brucelles , as youe have harde out of England , and sumthing
hath been spoken here . GARDIN,203.016.1153

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al the noble men saye styl thEmperour wyl goo to Utryk .
GARDIN,203.016.1154

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Skepperus told us it is impossible , for the waye . GARDIN,203.016.1155

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I may byleve that was told me , howe , whatsoever thEmperour doth
with Fraunce , he wyl doo never the lesse with us , al is wel .
GARDIN,203.016.1156

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I see yet noo cause to suspecte it . GARDIN,203.016.1157

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Monsieur de Bure sheweth himself a very gentylman , and oon that berith
his harte to the Kinges Majestie . GARDIN,203.016.1158

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Ascot hath shewed me a very gret familiarite and courtesie
. GARDIN,203.016.1159

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The man is wise and of good discourse , as the Italyan sayth .
GARDIN,203.016.1160

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he shewed me of the behavour of our Almaynes and ther abhomination
, notyng the gret presumption in the arrogant horsons that noo more
feared soo noble a prince as the Kinges Majestie is ,
GARDIN,203.016.1161

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told me of the losenes of the worlde by thies warres ; adding that
if the princes of the worlde doo not shortly extincte warre and begynne
to lyve in ther reputacion , without necessite of the service of the
lewde lower sorte by waye of necessite , it is to be feared lest the
lower parte by insolence shal attempte gretter thinges .
GARDIN,203.016.1162

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have seen a house this daye buylded by Jasper Duche of such cost and
elegancy as , under the Kinges Majestie , noo man hath attempted in
England . GARDIN,203.016.1163

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dare not saye there is noon able . GARDIN,203.016.1164

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We had there a very gret fest . GARDIN,203.016.1165

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al we recommende us to my Lord of Duresme , Master Tregonnel , and youe
, whom God send hartely wel to fare . GARDIN,203.016.1166

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Antwerpe , the xxvj=ti= <P_204> of Novembre . GARDIN,204.016.1167

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send this berer oonly to Calays GARDIN,204.016.1168

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and geve him post money ther after . GARDIN,204.016.1169

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,204.016.1170

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_016:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipfull Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
one of the Kinges Majesties two Principall Secretaries .
GARDIN,204.016.1171

<Q_GAR_A_1545_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_017> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_204>

{ED:95._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:Antwerp,_30_November,_1545}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Most Excellent Majestie to <em> understand that </em>
, accordyng to your Highnes pleasour , signified by letters <em> from
your </em> Majesties Counsail , I have laboured to atteyne knowlege
$why thEmperour doth , neyther for hymself embrace the mariage <em> of
my Lady </em> Marye , ne accepte the offre of my Lady Elizabeth for hys
<em> son the </em> Prynce of Spayne ; wherin I have been advertised
<em> howe it hath </em> been put in thEmperours hed that your Highnes ,
mystrusting <em> what he </em> wold attempte in that realme , if he had
my Ladye Marye , <em> wold not </em> in dede be wylling thEmperour had
her , whenne the matier shuld $take effecte . GARDIN,204.017.1172

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as towching my Ladye Elizabeth , oonly qualitas , as it was termed
to me , is that dissuadith them . GARDIN,204.017.1173

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus moch $hath been told me , with gret adjurations and obtestacions
of $secrecie <em> ; for </em> which purpose I directe thiese letters to
your Majesties own $handes . Whom Almyghty God preserve in long and
continual $felicite . GARDIN,204.017.1174

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Antwerpe , the last of Novembre . GARDIN,204.017.1175

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Majesties most humble $and obedient subget , servaunt , and $dayly
bedeman , Ste. $Winton GARDIN,204.017.1176

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kynges Most Excellent Majestie .
GARDIN,204.017.1177

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:48?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:72?
LETTER:GARDIN_017:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} In to his own handes . GARDIN,204.017.1178

<Q_GAR_A_1546_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_056> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506>

<P_212>

{ED:100._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Utrecht,_11_January,_1546}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : Here hath been
kept the feaste of thOrdre , vith a gret ceremonye throughly in every
bihaulf . GARDIN,212.056.1179

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First , the place was honorably and magnifiquely garnished ; that is to
saye , the body of the church with a gret quantite of riche arres , as
it shuld appere reserved to that use to serve at the fest of the Toyson
, GARDIN,212.056.1180

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is of that story , and very sumptuous . GARDIN,212.056.1181

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On both sydes of the quere of the church wer paynted very fynely al the
armes of the knightes and companyons of thOrdre that lyved at the last
chapter or wer made of the company synnes , with a difference , to
knowe who yet lyved and who at this tyme is ded ; GARDIN,212.056.1182

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for al yet lyving had ther armes paynted with ther crestes , and those
departed ther armes oonly , with a worde wryten underneth-LOC , '
trepasse ' . GARDIN,212.056.1183

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The nombre of the companyons be fyfty , GARDIN,212.056.1184

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo ther wer on ech side xxv places , which on both sydes , soo far
as extended to the places of kinges , was hanged from the armes down
<P_213> with cloth of tissue at the bak , and also cloth of tissue cast
over the deske bifore , GARDIN,213.056.1185

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that henge down to the grownde . GARDIN,213.056.1186

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The stalles under the rest of tharmes was , for the reredosse , crymsen
tafta ; to syt in , crymsen saten ; and the deskes caste over with
crymsen damaske , that dyd hang down to the grownde , which , being ful
and , as we saye , cut owte of the hol cloth , made a very gorgeous
shewe to the yee ; which we had good tyme to behold , tarying soo long
for thEmperour as we did . GARDIN,213.056.1187

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was put in ordre a numbre of bishoppes , with ther mytres and
coopes to receyve thEmperour , with thassembre of al the clergie of the
towne to receyve thEmperour also , which stode in the body of the
church . GARDIN,213.056.1188

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was also a solemne place prepared for thambassadours , and the
place wel kept that noo man pressed bifore us , with a forme bifore us
to leane at , covered with cloth of tissue and crymsen velvet .
GARDIN,213.056.1189

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after al thing thus in ordre , thEmperour with his companyons
cummyth to the church , which wer viij besides hymself , al appareled
in crymsen velvet , both kyrtelles and roobes , with hoodes of the same
, as the knightes of the Garter have , which they here ware on ther
hedes in stede of ther cappes , which becamme them notably wel and had
a good grace . GARDIN,213.056.1190

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There cam also , bifore al , the officers of thOrdre , being foure ,
the chaunceler , the tresaurer , the register , and the chief herauld ,
whom they cal Toyson . GARDIN,213.056.1191

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al thiese foure wer appereled like the companyons without difference ,
saving the knightes outward roobes wer garnished with embroydery of
gold , and ther oonly playn velvet ; GARDIN,213.056.1192

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Toysons had upon his robe a coler of thOrdre , with al tharmes of
the companyons in gold , graved , added unto the same , which made a
brave shewe , and was the token to knowe him for chief herauld .
GARDIN,213.056.1193

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne they wer cumme , and thEmperour placed , ech other companyon
entred in to his place where his armes stode , having koshens of newe
crymsen velvet layde there redy for them ; GARDIN,213.056.1194

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo was the Evensong of Saincte Andrewe song at lenghth , and ended
by vij of the clok . GARDIN,213.056.1195

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo ended the ceremonye of that daye , which was Saturdaye .
GARDIN,213.056.1196

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Sondaye , aboute x of the clok in the mornyng , thEmperour with
his companyons cam to the church , appereled as they wer in the even
bifore , where was song the High Masse , with such ceremonyes as it was
past oon of the clok or we departed ; GARDIN,213.056.1197

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for whenne it cam <P_214> to the tyme of offeryng , not oonly
thEmperour hymself offred , and the compagnions , GARDIN,214.056.1198

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but also ther offred , by proctours and deputies , al that wer absent ,
yet lyving , which was seriously doon , and with a good circumstaunce ,
wherin thEmperour did wel refreshe us with his facion and bihavour in
that presence , whenne Monsieur de Burez supplied the Kinges Majesties
absence , who also in thexecution therof set forth the matier very wel
to us . GARDIN,214.056.1199

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For when thEmperour had himself offred , which he did with his officers
cummyng bifore him , his herauldes and sergauntes , the rest of the
compaygnions kepyng styl ther stalles , and oonly putting of ther
hoodes as he passed - whenne thEmperour was retourned , it semed ther
was a gret loking and expectation who shuld offre first , the French
King or the Kinges Majestie . GARDIN,214.056.1200

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therewith arryseth Monsieur de Bure , GARDIN,214.056.1201

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , after cursies made to the Sacrament and thenne to thEmperour ,
goth to the Kinges Majesties stal , which was next to thEmperour , and
soo nere as it was within his cloth of astate ; wherfor Monsieur de
Bure sumwhat forbare to entre the very seate and wold have stande a
lytel a syde . GARDIN,214.056.1202

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ThEmperour pulled hym by the roobe in to the very place ,
GARDIN,214.056.1203

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and caused him to put on his hode , which he dyd , GARDIN,214.056.1204

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and kept it on whiles Toyson , after ther custume , had rehersed the
Kinges Majesties style , and desired him to cum to the offeryng . After
which wordes spoken , Monsieur de Bure put of his hoode for cursy at
his departure , GARDIN,214.056.1205

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thEmperour likewise put of his hoode holly , soo as he dyd after to
noon other that executed for the other kinges ; which was noted .
GARDIN,214.056.1206

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whenne Monsieur de Bures cam towardes thofferyng and from
thofferyng , in his passage he signified in his cursies to us howe this
he did for the King our master ; GARDIN,214.056.1207

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when he was retourned to hys own stal agayn , thenne , after a
lytel pawse , he went to the French Kinges stal GARDIN,214.056.1208

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and offred for hym , with a signification to the French ambassadour in
passing by hym ; GARDIN,214.056.1209

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this we marked , that whenne Monsieur de Bure departed from the
French Kinges stal with cursy , as he did from the King our masters ,
thEmperour did oonly move his hoode , as he did accustumably to any of
them that made cursy to hym . GARDIN,214.056.1210

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this was noted , that to avoyde al argumentes that might be made of
the higher place bytwen the Kinges Majestie and the French King in this
Ordre , bicause the French King beganne the ranke of the <P_215> other
side of thEmperour , thEmperours badge with two pyllers in a fayre
table occupied the first place of the other side of the quere , and
thenne the French Kinges place next that , soo as thEmperour kepyng
both the first places on eyther side , the French King had the second
place on the left side , the Kinges Highnes next on ther right side .
GARDIN,215.056.1211

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After thoffering doon by al the compaignons lyving and for them , the
chauncelour of thOrdre made a sermon , declaryng the institution of
thOrdre and what was entended therby , and what al ther apparel
signified , wherein he spent an howre ; GARDIN,215.056.1212

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that doon they proceded in the Masse , GARDIN,215.056.1213

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , that finished , retourned to our lodging . GARDIN,215.056.1214

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At foure of the clok we assembled again in the church ,
GARDIN,215.056.1215

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and founde $thEmperours stal and al the stalles of the kinges , with
deskes bifore them , hanged and covered with blak velvet , and the rest
hanged and covered with blak cloth , and the high aulter likewise . And
morover in the stal of the King of Scottes departed , hanging from the
armes , a pece of cloth of gold of thre yardes long , and at the stal
of every other compaignon decessed , a pece of velvet of the same
length , which made a representacion as it wer of soo many herses .
GARDIN,215.056.1216

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
About fyve of the clok thEmperour cam with his compaignons and officers
, al appareled in blak cloth , with ther hoodes in stede of cappes ,
and the Ordre upon the outward garment ; GARDIN,215.056.1217

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo continued there whiles the Dirige was song at very gret lenghth
; GARDIN,215.056.1218

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , that doon , departed . GARDIN,215.056.1219

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mondaye in the mornyng about x of the clok , thEmperour with his
compaignons and officers al in blak repared to the church to here the
Dirige Masse , being prepared against that tyme fiftie candelles of
virgin wax , ech candel having a skochen with the armes of ech oon of
thOrdre , both alyve , and deed synnes the last chaptre .
GARDIN,215.056.1220

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
These candelles stode light , upon a beme bifore the high aulter , tyl
the tyme of thoffering , at which tyme the candel having $thEmperours
armes was taken downe by a pursuyvant , having thEmperours cote armour
on hym , and from hym delyvered to an harrault , and by the harralde
delyvered to Toyson , who , with rehersal of thEmperours style , called
thEmperour to the offeryng and delyvered hym his candel , which
thEmperour caryed to thoffering , GARDIN,215.056.1221

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as he had offered it , it was kept light and put again in the place
where it stode . GARDIN,215.056.1222

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne was a candel taken downe for the Kinges Majestie , with his
armes at it , GARDIN,215.056.1223

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Monsieur de Bure going to the <P_216> Kinges Majesties stal was
invited to thoffering , and the candel delyvered hym , which he offered
with a good grace , as he did the daye bifore , GARDIN,216.056.1224

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thEmperour had used him likewise . GARDIN,216.056.1225

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo the stalles wer perused , as they wer in ordre .
GARDIN,216.056.1226

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in every stal where the compaignon is yet lyving there was oon to
supplie his place ; GARDIN,216.056.1227

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but whenne the heralde cam to the stal of him that was dede , there was
noo man to supplie , GARDIN,216.056.1228

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but after the chief haralde Toson had named him by his style , he
turned him to thEmperour GARDIN,216.056.1229

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with a lowde voyce said , ' Il est morte . ' GARDIN,216.056.1230

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thenne Toson toke hymself the candel , having tharmes of him that
is dede , GARDIN,216.056.1231

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and caryed it up to the aulter very seriously , GARDIN,216.056.1232

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and offred it , not to the bishop , GARDIN,216.056.1233

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but delyvered it to oon of the ministres appointed therfor ,
GARDIN,216.056.1234

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and from hym was taken to the pursuyvant , who , with a ceremony ,
blewe it out . GARDIN,216.056.1235

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I may saye a circumstaunce also , GARDIN,216.056.1236

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there was experimented the conclusion that want of measure
destroyeth theffecte , GARDIN,216.056.1237

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for whenne he blewe tomoch , the candel went not oute
GARDIN,216.056.1238

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but lighted again . GARDIN,216.056.1239

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne the candel was put oute it was set again in his place with the
other burnyng , GARDIN,216.056.1240

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo appered howe many places wer voyde . GARDIN,216.056.1241

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The behavour in this matier was used with good ordre , without any
fayling or trouble . GARDIN,216.056.1242

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ech man knewe his office GARDIN,216.056.1243

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and neded noo admonition . GARDIN,216.056.1244

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lamentable wordes , ' Il est morte , ' with the putting out of the
candel , was a good representacion of our estate , howe weake it is
indede . GARDIN,216.056.1245

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenne thoffering was doon , the registre of the Ordre redde openly the
statutes of thOrdre , with the names of al those that had been of
thOrdre synnes the begynnyng ; GARDIN,216.056.1246

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therin he spent oon howre , soo as it was two of the clok or we
went from the church that daye . GARDIN,216.056.1247

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mondaye at night al the blak was taken awaye , and the stalles agin in
ther fresh furniter as bifore ; GARDIN,216.056.1248

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at fyve of the clok thEmperour cam to church with his companyons
and officers , al in white damaske , with ther garmentes gyrte , and
ther hodes of crymsen velvet on ther hedes , which was a very good
sight . GARDIN,216.056.1249

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And there was Evensong song of Our Lady , very freshely , to recompense
the deul bifore ; which ended not bifore vij of the clok .
GARDIN,216.056.1250

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tuesdaye in the mornyng thEmperour cam again to the church with his
compaignons , in white , GARDIN,216.056.1251

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and harde Masse of Our Lady , very solemnely doon ; at which tyme
thEmperour oonly did offre , GARDIN,216.056.1252

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at that offryng <P_217> al the compaignons did cum out of ther
stalles , GARDIN,217.056.1253

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wayted on the Emperour to the offering , GARDIN,217.056.1254

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and brought hym again to his stal , which they did not bifore .
GARDIN,217.056.1255

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I note unto youe the more diligently the offeringes , bicause in them
we receyved many curseys of them that offered , aswel thEmperour as
other , both-4 in going to the offering and the commyng from it .
GARDIN,217.056.1256

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Synnes thiese ceremonies abrode , thEmperour hath spent moch tyme in
the chaptre with his compaignons , who sate in counsayl on ther matiers
oon daye from two at after noone tyl eleven at night , and the next
daye from oon to seven at night ; GARDIN,217.056.1257

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet we here not abrode what is therin doon ; GARDIN,217.056.1258

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but Monsieur de Bures hath been with me and told me he wyl advertise
the Kinges Majestie what is doon there . GARDIN,217.056.1259

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And nowe I thinke , or ye have red thus far , ye wyl mervel what I had
a doo to wryte this , even asmoch as I have sumtyme when I wryte John
Kingston , wherwith I have spent in an afternone asmoch paper as this .
GARDIN,217.056.1260

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And herby ye maye perceyve I am not yet waxed slowtheful in wryting ,
althought of late postes have goon slowly from us . GARDIN,217.056.1261

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If ye knowe any that lovith noo ceremonyes , geve hym this letter to
rede for special newes . GARDIN,217.056.1262

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo fare ye hartely wel . GARDIN,217.056.1263

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Utrek , the xj=th= of January . GARDIN,217.056.1264

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,217.056.1265

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Sir Wylliam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaries .
GARDIN,217.056.1266

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_056:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} At laysour . GARDIN,217.056.1267

<Q_GAR_A_1546_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_057> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506>

<P_218>

{ED:101._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Utrecht,_17_January,_1546}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendacions : I understand it
hath pleased the Court of Parliament to geve in to the Kinges Majesties
handes the disposition of al hospitalles , chaunteries , and other
houses ; wherof I am very glad and , thus far , if I might without
displeasour , wold be an humble suter , both-3 by myself and my frendes
, that it wold please his Majestie to have respecte , as I doubte not
but his Highnes wyl , to the Hospitalles of Saincte Crosse besides
Winchestre and of Mary Magdalene , wherin poore folkes be releved
GARDIN,218.057.1268

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the oon , <P_219> which is Mary Magdalenes , I thinke hath noo land
of any value , GARDIN,219.057.1269

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
oonly the bishoppes have been content to geve yerely , without any
convenaunt but oonly by this title pro elemosina episcopi , xxxvj
<font> li </font> . GARDIN,219.057.1270

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for Saincte Crosses , $it hath not tenne powndes in temporal landes
, GARDIN,219.057.1271

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the house hath noo commodite for any mannes dwelling .
GARDIN,219.057.1272

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I gave it of late to my chapelen that is here with me , who standith
bounde for the fyrst frutes and hath payde sumwhat alredy .
GARDIN,219.057.1273

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herin I wold frame my sute soo far as might be graciously harde , which
youe canne knowe there better thenne I here , GARDIN,219.057.1274

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor remitte it unto youe to be tempered as ye shal thinke good
. GARDIN,219.057.1275

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I meane not to have any thing a doo with them myself ,
GARDIN,219.057.1276

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thinke them wel in the Kinges Majesties hand from whens I had them
; GARDIN,219.057.1277

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this I meane : to have them stande ordred at the Kinges Majesties
good pleasour , GARDIN,219.057.1278

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the countrie is poore and very poore , GARDIN,219.057.1279

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thiese two howses sum what garnishe the town , which , by reason of
fryers , monkes , and nunnes , whose howses stand al to torne , with
the decaye of the inhabitauntes , is nowe moch defaced .
GARDIN,219.057.1280

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if the Kinges Majestie $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} good and gratious
Lorde to my chapelen that hath it , it shuld be moch to my counforte ;
wherin I praye youe doo what ye maye , and advise me whither I shuld
make any further sute in it or let it alone ; which I wyl folowe .
GARDIN,219.057.1281

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Oon thing I assure youe , GARDIN,219.057.1282

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there is noo man wold geve more for the Howse of Saincte Crosse to pul
it downe or dwel in it thenne I wyl to have it stande in the Kinges
Majesties patronage as it nowe is . GARDIN,219.057.1283

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I praye youe doo herin asmoch as ye maye . GARDIN,219.057.1284

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this is my fyrst sute . GARDIN,219.057.1285

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My seconde is sute for relief of my servaunt Davye , who doth me in
travayl notable good service , such as I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} have
doon of any other for money , in tormoyling from place to place ;
GARDIN,219.057.1286

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nowe in his absence here with me there hath passed a decre against
hym in Wales for the possession of certain land , which matier was
suspended to be ordred by me and an other , and , that fayling , the
parties to appere bytwen Halowmes and Christmesse ; GARDIN,219.057.1287

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane tyme I was sent awaye , GARDIN,219.057.1288

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dyd warraunte my man Davye that he shuld suffre noo prejudice in
this absence ; GARDIN,219.057.1289

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in good fayth it wer requisite to have $our $privilege defended
that travayle in legations . GARDIN,219.057.1290

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if my man might recover the possession upon that benefite , it
shuld be to me a singuler pleasour ; wherin I praye youe send a lettre
to my Lord President or obteyne a wrytte of privilege for restitucion
upon this cause , or otherwise , GARDIN,219.057.1291

<P_220>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as ye thinke good , soo it be doon . GARDIN,220.057.1292

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Hare knowith sumwhat of the matier ; GARDIN,220.057.1293

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the possession to be altred in the tyme of his absence here - we
ambassadours <paren> herin be youe comprehended </paren> must hold oon
with an other . GARDIN,220.057.1294

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is a matier of commen right , GARDIN,220.057.1295

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor I wryte not to my Lord President ; GARDIN,220.057.1296

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he wold be loth to retracte his ordre , GARDIN,220.057.1297

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yet in this cace yt $can $not {TEXT:cannot} have place .
GARDIN,220.057.1298

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye knowe the sodennesse of my cummyng out , GARDIN,220.057.1299

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this man was soo necessary as I coulde not want him .
GARDIN,220.057.1300

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A good felowship helpe herin , GARDIN,220.057.1301

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wryte unto me that ye doo soo , GARDIN,220.057.1302

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for soo shal I courage my man who is nowe haulf deed .
GARDIN,220.057.1303

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus fare ye hartely wel . GARDIN,220.057.1304

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Utrek the xvij=th= of January . GARDIN,220.057.1305

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,220.057.1306

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In noo wise forget this . GARDIN,220.057.1307

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipfull Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
one of the Kinges Majesties two Principall Secretaries .
GARDIN,220.057.1308

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:BELOW_ADDRESS:} Hast , GARDIN,220.057.1309

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_057:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hast , with al hast . GARDIN,220.057.1310

<Q_GAR_A_1546_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_058> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506>

<P_245>

{ED:111._TO_PAGET}

{ED:London,_11_October,_1546}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendacions : As towching the
conference with Duke Philip and the other , wherof ye desire to be
advertised , ye shal understand that , being my Lord Chaunceler , my
Lord Gret Master , my Lord Chamberlain , and myself appointed to here
what shuld be said on ther parte , they alleging that ther letters ,
with ther commission , perished at Gravelyng , said theffecte of ther
cummyng was upon an overture $made by Master Mason . Wherupon they wer
sent to knowe what the Kinges Majestie wold saye $unto them , and
further to knowe a $favorable resolution in the matier of maryage ;
$wherupon , they said , the rest shuld depende and ensue .
GARDIN,245.058.1311

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for the first tyme , bicause we coulde not induce them to begynne
to speke any specialtie , and we had noothing to saye to them , we said
, by waye of communication , that we toke the maryage to be rather
thende , wherunto the lightlywode of the other matiers shuld be an
inducement ; GARDIN,245.058.1312

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as those appered faysable , soo to speke of the $maryage , and not
otherwise . GARDIN,245.058.1313

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for the tyme , we said , we toke not Master Massons commission to
have allured them hither , which was playnly , precisely , and
peremptoryly denyed and refused . GARDIN,245.058.1314

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles , we said , we wold speke with Master Mason against the
next mornyng , and so retourne to speke with them ; which was doon .
GARDIN,245.058.1315

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And on the morowe Master Mason went with us GARDIN,245.058.1316

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and clerely veryfied the maner of the answer to such overture as was
made by hym , GARDIN,245.058.1317

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther called to witnesse Duke Philip , who coulde not denye it ,
wherby appered that they cam nowe as men repentyng the refusal made ,
and desirous of communication therin ; and <P_246> therupon beganne to
declare the conformite and inclination of the Countie Palantyne to a
leage with the Kinges Majestie , wherunto the rest of the princes
Protestantes shuld be also induced ; and therwith exhibyted a capita of
articles of a leage , agreying , in effecte , with those conteyned in
Master Masons instructions ; which capita we toke of them , and
therwith reapared to the Kinges Majestie , whose resolution was , that
to wynne tyme , wherby to knowe better the state of the thynges , we
shuld retourne to them and allege the gretnes and waight of the matier
to require commission bifore any further communication ; which they
might nowe have good opportunite to sende for at good laysour , with
allegacion of the Kinges Majesties removing that daye , and our repare
to London . GARDIN,246.058.1318

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They thought we spake reason , GARDIN,246.058.1319

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and agreed soo to doo . GARDIN,246.058.1320

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles they made a motion that we shuld have procured the Kinges
Majesties letters to the Countie Palantyne , which we soo avoyded as
they agreed ther request to be unreasonable . GARDIN,246.058.1321

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And herwith we bad them fare wel , as I doo nowe to youe ,
GARDIN,246.058.1322

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and departed , as I doo nowe to youe in thies letters .
GARDIN,246.058.1323

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London , the xj=th= of Octobre , at night . GARDIN,246.058.1324

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. $Winton GARDIN,246.058.1325

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:40
LETTER:GARDIN_058:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir Wyllyam Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,246.058.1326

<Q_GAR_A_1546_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_030> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_246>

{ED:112._TO_HENRY_VIII}

{ED:London,_2_December,_1546}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith it your Most Excellent Majestie to pardonne me that , having
noo such opportunite to make humble sute to your Highnes presence as
the trouble of my mynde enforcyth me , I am soo bold to moleste your
Majestie with thiese my letters , which be oonly to desyre your <P_247>
Highnes , of your accustumed goodnesse and clemencie , to be my good
and gratious lorde , and to continue such opinion of me as I have ever
trusted and , by manyfold benefites , certaynly knowen your Majestie to
have had of me , and not to empayre it , as I veryly trust your
Majestie wyl not , tyl your Highnes knowith , by myself , my dedes and
bihavour to deserve the same ; which I $trust never to see .
GARDIN,247.030.1327

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Majestie hath bounde noon other of your subgettes $more thenne me
; GARDIN,247.030.1328

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have ever , and doo make thaccounpte of your $Majesties benefites
, soo as I esteme them worthely , asmoch as any other $hath receyved ,
wherwith I have and doo rejoyse and counforte myself , with a mynde ,
desire , and entent in service , which is al of duetie , in sum parte
to declare myn inward rejoyse of your Highnes $favour , and that I wold
not wyllingly offende your Majestie for noo wordly {ED:i.e.,_worldly}
thing . GARDIN,247.030.1329

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is my harte , afore God , GARDIN,247.030.1330

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and noo man hath harde me saye to the contrary ; GARDIN,247.030.1331

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if , for want of circumspection , my doinges or saynges be
otherwise taken in this matier of $landes , wherin I was spoken with ,
I must and wyl lamente myn $infelicite , and most humbly on my knees
desire your Majestie to pardon it . GARDIN,247.030.1332

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I never said naye to any request made , wherwith to resiste your
Highnes pleasour , GARDIN,247.030.1333

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but oonly , in most humble wise , toke upon me to be a suter to your
Highnes goodnes , wherunto I have ben bolded by thaboundaunce of your
Majesties favour hertofore shewed unto me . GARDIN,247.030.1334

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Highnes hath made me , without my desertes ; GARDIN,247.030.1335

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and though I deserve not the continuaunce of that favour , yet I wold
gladly , by humble prayour and intercession , supplie my want , if I
coulde , to have such help at your $Highnes handes as I knowe others to
have had , to be $entertaigned for reputacion whenne ther service hath
fayled ; wherin I have had as gratious answer from your Majestie as I
coulde wishe , for the which I most humbly thanke your Highnes .
GARDIN,247.030.1336

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet , bicause I have noo accesse to your Majestie , ne hearing of
late any more of this matier , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} forbere to
open truly my harte to your Highnes , with most humble request to take
the same in most gratious parte ; for whose most prosperous felicite I
shal , according to my duetie , praye duryng my life .
GARDIN,247.030.1337

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At London , the seconde of Decembre . GARDIN,247.030.1338

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Majesties most humble and obedient subget , servaunt , and dayly
bedeman , Ste. Winton GARDIN,247.030.1339

<P_248>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:49?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_030:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Kinges Most Excellent Majestie .
GARDIN,248.030.1340

<Q_GAR_A_1547_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_031> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_253>

{ED:115._TO_PAGET}

{ED:Southwark,_5_February,_1547}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my right harty commendations : I sent unto
youe my servaunt yesterdaye , wherin by your advise I have had redresse
; GARDIN,253.031.1341

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nowe I wryte unto youe in an other matier sumwhat gretter , as it
were bitwen game and ernest . GARDIN,253.031.1342

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tomorowe the parisheners of this parish and I have agreed to have
solempne Dirige for our late soverain lorde and master , in ernest , as
becommith us ; GARDIN,253.031.1343

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tomorowe certain players of my Lord of Oxfordes , as they saye ,
entende on the other syde , within this borough of Southwarke , to have
a solempne playe , to trye who shal have most resorte , they in game or
in ernest ; which me semeth a mervelous contencion , wherin sum shal
professe in the name of the commen welth , myrth , and sum sorowe , at
oon tyme . GARDIN,253.031.1344

<P_254>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herin I folowe the commen determynation to sorowe tyl our late master
be buryed . GARDIN,254.031.1345

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And what the lewd felawes shuld meane in the contrary I canne $not tel
, GARDIN,254.031.1346

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor $can $not {TEXT:cannot} refourme it , GARDIN,254.031.1347

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor wryte <em> unto youe </em> who , by meanes of my Lord
Protectour , maye $procure an uniformite in the commen welth : al the
body to doo oon thing , and in the entering of our old master to lament
to gither , and in the crownyng of our newe master to rejoyse to gither
; after which folowith incontinently a tyme of lamentacion for synne
{ED:i.e.,_Lent} , which is not to be neglected , and wherin I doubt not
ye wyl , without me , consider your charge . GARDIN,254.031.1348

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have herin spoken with Master Acton , justice of peax , whom the
players smally regarde , GARDIN,254.031.1349

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and presse hym to a peremptorie answer , whither he dare lette them to
playe or not . Wherunto he answerth neyther ye nor naye as to the
playing ; GARDIN,254.031.1350

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as to the assemble of people in this borough , in this tyme ,
neyther the buryal finished , ne the coronation doon , he pleadeth to
the players for the tyme naye , tyl he have commaundement to the
contrary . GARDIN,254.031.1351

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But his naye is not moch regarded , and myn lesse , as partye to
players . GARDIN,254.031.1352

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfor I wryte unto youe , wherin if ye wyl not , propter invidiam
, medle , sende me soo worde , GARDIN,254.031.1353

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I wyl myself sewe to my Lord Protectour . GARDIN,254.031.1354

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For me thinketh it is nimis barbarum to playe in luctu , and to moch
money lost in blakkes , if we ought rather to playe as thiese playing
bestes {ED:i.e.,_beasts} pretendith . GARDIN,254.031.1355

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For like as in rebus prosperis it hath been accustumed indicere gaudium
publicum , soo it is likewise honorable in adversis indicere luctum ;
which shal set forth the coronation of our newe master as blakke
settith forth white . GARDIN,254.031.1356

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Quod de hiis nimium multa vale , GARDIN,254.031.1357

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and do as ye shal thinke good . GARDIN,254.031.1358

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo fare ye wel . GARDIN,254.031.1359

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my house in Southwarke the v=th= of February . GARDIN,254.031.1360

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton GARDIN,254.031.1361

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:50?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_031:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Paget , Knight ,
oon of the Kinges Majesties Two Principal Secretaryes .
GARDIN,254.031.1362

<Q_GAR_A_1554_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_032> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_459>

{ED:158._TO_PETRE}

{ED:Southwark,_28_January,_1554}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : In the mornyng I
thought good to serch the Mynoresse and Medles lodging there for
letters , GARDIN,459.032.1363

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , among other , founde a letter lately wryten by Harington ,
<P_460> which Harington cam to me this night , GARDIN,460.032.1364

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , after examiination , I have taken him tardy by occasion of that
letter GARDIN,460.032.1365

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and kepe him with me as prisoner this night , entending in the mornyng
to send him to the Towre ; GARDIN,460.032.1366

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath confessed howe upon Fridaye at night the Lord John Gray cam
to Cheston , where Master Wroth and he was , GARDIN,460.032.1367

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake with Master Wroth and him to get a gyde to leade him the waye
to Saincte Albons , bicause he was commaunded by the Quene , he said ,
to levye men in his countrie in al the hast ; GARDIN,460.032.1368

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and more I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} get yet , GARDIN,460.032.1369

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ye must in any wise send for thapprehension of Wroth ,
GARDIN,460.032.1370

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this matier wyl cumme out and towche fully . GARDIN,460.032.1371

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as I was in hand with that matier , were delyvered such letters as
in tymes past I durst not have opened , GARDIN,460.032.1372

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but nowe sumwhat hette with thiese treasons I waxed bolder . Wherein I
trust I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} borne with ; wherein happe helpith me
, GARDIN,460.032.1373

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they be worth the breking up , and {ED:i.e.,_if} I could holly
disciphre them ; wherein I wyl spende sumwhat of my laysour , if I
canne have any ; GARDIN,460.032.1374

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this apperith , that the letter wryten from my Lady Elizabeth to
the Quenes Highnes nowe late in her excuse is taken a matier worthy to
be sent in to Fraunce , GARDIN,460.032.1375

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have the copy of it in the Frenche ambassadours pacquet .
GARDIN,460.032.1376

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wyl knowe what canne be doon in the disciphring it , and to morowe
remitte that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} doo unto youe .
GARDIN,460.032.1377

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo fare ye hartely wel . GARDIN,460.032.1378

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my house in Sowthwerke , the xxviij of January . GARDIN,460.032.1379

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton , GARDIN,460.032.1380

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cancell . GARDIN,460.032.1381

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Wharton shall tel youe the rest . GARDIN,460.032.1382

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_032:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Peter , Knight ,
oon of the Quenes Highnes Principal Secretaryes . GARDIN,460.032.1383

<Q_GAR_A_1554_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_034> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?> <R_ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_461>

{ED:159._TO_PETRE}

{ED:Southwark,_31_January,_1554}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : Ye shal
understand howe Monsieur dEgmont and the rest of thambassadours have
sent this berer with an other his servauntes unto me , to knowe myn
advise in ther suer going or taryng , and what waye . Wherin , after
ther jugement , the waye by land to Harwich is over long , and ther
passing thens semeth to them to be in the more daungier of the French
men . GARDIN,461.034.1384

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is offered an other opportunite to take shipping in the ryver
here and soo to goo along the sees ; for which purpose they have mete
shippes of ther owne countrie , which they wold entre this night , if
the imminent $daungier required the same . GARDIN,461.034.1385

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Or elles if they taryed tomorowe they wold send ther stuf first to myn
chambre or sum other place in the Quenes Courte , with ordre to convoye
the same by barge , as it wer to the Towre , and thens to ther shippes
; wherby al suspition of ther departure by water shuld be avoyded .
GARDIN,461.034.1386

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Herin this berer wyl require your advise as he hath doon myn ; and
therewith to knowe of my Lord Admyral whither two of the Quenes shippes
, which lye equipped in the streme , may be redy to departe with them
for ther wafting or noo . GARDIN,461.034.1387

<P_462>

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus referring the further resolution to youe and them , I bydde youe
hartely farewel . GARDIN,462.034.1388

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my hous this evenyng . GARDIN,462.034.1389

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton , GARDIN,462.034.1390

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cancell . GARDIN,462.034.1391

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:ARTHUR_PLANTAGENET:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:GARDIN_034:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Wourshipful Sir William Peter , Knyght ,
oon of the Quenes Majesties Principal Secretaries . GARDIN,462.034.1392

<Q_GAR_A_1554_T_SGARDINER> <L_GARDIN_024> <A_STEPHEN_GARDINER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497?>
<R_HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1494?>

<P_462>

{ED:160._TO_PETRE}

{ED:Southwark,_11_February,_1554}

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendations : I sende unto
youe herwith such letters , with confessions and copies of letters , as
I have receyved from Sir Robert Southwel , wherin is good matier worthy
knowledge , the summe of money in Wottons handes , if it be trewe , and
evel matier worthy knowlege , towching the rumours of the French Kinges
practises here-LOC , mentioned in a letter from Parys .
GARDIN,462.024.1393

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tomorowe at your going to the Towre it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} good ye
be ernest with oon lytel Wyat there prysoner , who by al lightlywode
canne tel al . GARDIN,462.024.1394

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is but a bastarde GARDIN,462.024.1395

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath noo substaunce . GARDIN,462.024.1396

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And {ED:i.e.,_if} it might stande with the Quenes Highnes pleasour ,
there were noo gret accompte to be made whither ye pressed him to saye
truth by sharp punishement or promise of life . GARDIN,462.024.1397

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shal also receyve herwith a reaporte of Parkar , whose confession
Sir Robert Southwel sent me , made by yong Darel that brought me thiese
letters which I send youe , subscribed with his hand ; wherby it semeth
this matier $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} , by Goddes goodnes , throughly
opened ; Who <P_463> sende youe hartely wel to fare .
GARDIN,463.024.1398

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my house this evenyng the xj=th= of February 1553 {ED:54} .
GARDIN,463.024.1399

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured loving frend , Ste. Winton , GARDIN,463.024.1400

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cancell . GARDIN,463.024.1401

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray youe send me worde what ye thinke good to be answered by me to
Master Southwel , wherein I praye youe knowe the Quenes Highnes
pleasour . GARDIN,463.024.1402

AUTHOR:STEPHEN_GARDINER:MALE:_:1497?:57?
RECIPIENT:HONOR_PLANTAGENET[N.GRENVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1494?:60?
LETTER:GARDIN_024:E1:1554:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED:} To the Right Worshipful Sir William Peter , Knight ,
oon of the Quenes Highnes Principal Secretaries . GARDIN,463.024.1403
