<B_HATTON>

<Q_HAT_A_1601_FN_CRHATTON> <L_HATTON_001> <A_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FUTURE_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_---> <R_ALICE_FANSHAW>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_FUTURE_WIFE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,1>

{ED:SIR_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_TO_ALICE_FANSHAW.}

{ED:About_A.D._1601.}

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sweete M=res= Ales , As I never liked y=e= amorous gallants of our tyme
y=t= make a traffique of lovinge and a trade of dissemblinge , lovinge
whom ere they see , and ownlie lovinge whilst they see ; soe am I not
composed of soe hard a mettle but y=t= fine beautie can pearce , and
compleate perfections ravish , my admiringe soule . HATTON,I,1.001.1

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hithertoe have I beene good tutor to my owne youthfull fancies ,
makinge keepe whom {ED:home} in a plain whomly breast ;
HATTON,I,1.001.2

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , since of late y=r= beauty procured them a litle liberty , they
are flowne abroade HATTON,I,1.001.3

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have burnte theire winges in affections flame , soe y=t= I feare
they will never flye whome againe . HATTON,I,1.001.4

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have ofte observed it to bee y=e= effect of base and a dull
discerninge eie to dote upon every obiect without distinction ,
HATTON,I,1.001.5

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have markt it out as true property of y=e= fierie soule to honour
chast <P_I,2> beauty where ever it harbers , and to love y=e= verie
windowes of y=t= house where soe faire a guest as vertue soiourneth .
In which sole regarde my iudgment and affection , of olde enimyes ,
provinge true friends , are resolved for ever to dwell together , my
affection commendinge my iudgment for soe faire a choice , my iudgment
applaudinge my affection for her eager persute of soe woorthy a game .
Both which ioyntlie dedicate unto yow , upon this paper altar , love
answearable to y=r= owne vertuous desertes , and farr more then these
fewe lines , the stammeringe servantes of a speackinge mynde , can
utter . HATTON,I,2.001.6

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Onely thus y=r= vertue made mee to wounder ; HATTON,I,2.001.7

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
from admiration sprunge my love ; from unspotted love this letter , the
atturnie of cause which must often plead for mee in the court of
beautie , since y=e= disadvantage of y=e= tymes , my many iealious
observers prevent my presence . HATTON,I,2.001.8

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Maye it therfore plaese yow to answeare my love with likinge , and my
letters hereafter with a line or twoo ; y=t= both of us , disaccustomed
to this newe theame of love , maye write y=t= freely which our tongues
, devided with modestie and reverence , could hardly utter .
HATTON,I,2.001.9

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Meane tyme receave from him y=t= loves yow woorthylie his harte <paren>
beecause hee hath nothinge deerer then his harte </paren> , vowed to
bee an aeternall bed for y=r= love to rest on . HATTON,I,2.001.10

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Receave the wish of y=r= full content from him who must live
discontented , tyll expiringe , and extracted favour set a period to
his chast longinge desires . HATTON,I,2.001.11

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=rs= , in all harty affection , Chr. Hatton . HATTON,I,2.001.12

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus have I rudely rigde this paper saile , HATTON,I,2.001.13

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Soone maye hee waufted bee with happie gaile ; HATTON,I,2.001.14

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nor needs it piratts feare , HATTON,I,2.001.15

AUTHOR:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_IV:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:ALICE_FANSHAW:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_001:E2:1601:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , though it die , Loves endles trafique in this breast doth lie .
HATTON,I,2.001.16

<Q_HAT_A_1620?_FN_AHATTON> <L_HATTON_002> <A_ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1605?>

<P_I,3>

{ED:LADY_HATTON_TO_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON.}

{ED:About_A.D._1620?}

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sonne , I have received both your letters , HATTON,I,3.002.17

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and am glad to see your hand mende . HATTON,I,3.002.18

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have not heard from your tutor scince I saw you , which maketh me
thinke his desier is to leave you behind him . HATTON,I,3.002.19

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He did likewise tell me soe when he was heere , HATTON,I,3.002.20

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gave me resons which seemed to me verie good , as , his spedie
returne , your loss of time , my house groeth mow unholsom , and your
iorneys are verie chargable . HATTON,I,3.002.21

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Theese considernations hath made me so resoulfe of meeting you at Ware
park , as soune as my busines will give me leave . HATTON,I,3.002.22

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am now going to Jankins for a weeke ; HATTON,I,3.002.23

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
at my returne I will make you a sommer sute . HATTON,I,3.002.24

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have written more of this matter then needeth , HATTON,I,3.002.25

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I make noe doubt but you knowe your duetie to me so well that my
will had been a sufficient reason to you for your not comming at this
time . HATTON,I,3.002.26

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
You must knowe frome me that , if I did not strive som times against
the fond affections of a mother , I should send oftner for you then you
whould be willing to com , if you love your one good , as I hope you
doe . HATTON,I,3.002.27

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am now in hast , HATTON,I,3.002.28

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yeat I must put you in minde of your cheefe dutie , which is to God
, which I charge you not to neclect , but to dedicate your first
thoughts to Him constantly ; HATTON,I,3.002.29

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
read His worde reverently ; HATTON,I,3.002.30

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
heare sermonns ; HATTON,I,3.002.31

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
strive to take notes that you may meditate on them , without which you
can never practise , which is the onely end for which you were created
, to knowe God 's will and to indever to doe it . HATTON,I,3.002.32

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What panes soever you take hearin , it will vannish , HATTON,I,3.002.33

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the proffit will remaine with you . HATTON,I,3.002.34

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is contrarie in fruitles pleasules , the sweetnes whereof is quicly
gon , HATTON,I,3.002.35

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the sorrow lonely stayes . HATTON,I,3.002.36

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Idlenes is much like or wours , which I wish you to avoyde , even for
your health sake , but especially because it is a sinn , and that not a
lickle <P_I,4> one , it being the cause of many others .
HATTON,I,4.002.37

AUTHOR:ALICE_HATTON[N.FANSHAW]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_II:MALE:SON:1605?:15?
LETTER:HATTON_002:E2:1620?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus , desiering God of His greate goodnes to bless you and all your
studies and indevers , I rest Your verie loving mother , Ales Hatton .
HATTON,I,4.002.38

<Q_HAT_A_1653_T_SMEWCE> <L_HATTON_003> <A_S._MEWCE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,7>

{ED:S._MEWCE_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
21th of Aprill , 1653 . HATTON,I,7.003.39

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , {ED:...} The long sitting parlament was dissolved in a trice ,
without noyse . HATTON,I,7.003.40

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Generall and Harison came into the House , where , when hee was
sett down and putt on his hatt , he made a sharp speech ; and in
perticuler reproched the Speaker , the Comissioner Whitlock , Sir Henry
Vane , Coll. Alger. Sidney , and some other members , and then comanded
that bable the mace to bee taken awaye ; w=ch= done , hee comanded
those pryme men whome hee had formentioned to goe forth ; which not
redyly obaying , hee comanded Harison to call up the soldiers , whoe
sone putt out those that seemed unwilling ; HATTON,I,7.003.41

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the rest easily obeyed HATTON,I,7.003.42

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all departed , HATTON,I,7.003.43

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the dores are locked up after them . HATTON,I,7.003.44

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is said that the Speaker is committed , and your La=p= acquaintance
, $Alderman Allon , and divers others secured . HATTON,I,7.003.45

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wee must nowe every day looke for newe things . HATTON,I,7.003.46

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God knowes what will followe ; HATTON,I,7.003.47

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but generally this change is not unwelcome to the people .
HATTON,I,7.003.48

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your La=ps= freinds heere present there respects to you .
HATTON,I,7.003.49

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_003:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am , Madame , Your La=ps= humble servaunt , S. Mewce .
HATTON,I,7.003.50

<Q_HAT_A_1653_T_SMEWCE> <L_HATTON_004> <A_S._MEWCE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,8>

{ED:THE_SAME_TO_THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
28th Aprill , 1653 HATTON,I,8.004.51

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , Your great packuitt is come to my hand , w=ch= I am yet some
thing unresolved to send awaie by this post , because the last weeke
letters were stopt heere , HATTON,I,8.004.52

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and what is become of them I know not . HATTON,I,8.004.53

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This is a change that people looke on with some astonishment , as
unresolved which waye it is like to settle ; HATTON,I,8.004.54

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but all is quiett , and the hall at Westminster full , as it usually is
in the begining of a terme . HATTON,I,8.004.55

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Comittee sit HATTON,I,8.004.56

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and little or noe change yet appears . HATTON,I,8.004.57

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the army flocketh to this towne and neere to it , HATTON,I,8.004.58

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and a more full declaration then is yet made is expected and promised .
HATTON,I,8.004.59

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That w=ch= is

I heere enclosed , if perchance you have not seene it .
HATTON,I,8.004.61

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Heere is a short declaration from part of the fleete , expressing there
resolution to bee faithfull to there country and to fight against the
enemyes of it , whether Dutch or others ; HATTON,I,8.004.62

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it takes noe notice of this change , HATTON,I,8.004.63

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed is a verie empty thing , as I conceave . HATTON,I,8.004.64

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is a report that the nation $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} devided into
seven provinces , over each of which one cheife man $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} set . Sir Gilbert Pickering is said to bee one , and that
every county shall chouse 4 or 5 whom they <P_I,9> thinke fitt , out
w=ch= one for every county $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} elected by the 7 ,
HATTON,I,9.004.65

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and those together $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} the newe representive and
over all the army ; HATTON,I,9.004.66

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but perchance this is a fancy which may give your La=p= a little
devertisement {ED:...} HATTON,I,9.004.67

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_004:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , Your La=ps= humble servaunt , S. Mewce . HATTON,I,9.004.68

<Q_HAT_A_1653_T_SMEWCE> <L_HATTON_005> <A_S._MEWCE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,9>

{ED:THE_SAME_TO_THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
11th August , 1653 . HATTON,I,9.005.69

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , {ED:...} That the Dutch are soe conquered as you heare I yet
beleive not . HATTON,I,9.005.70

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The first day they had the better of us , HATTON,I,9.005.71

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but afterwards Penn gott betwixt them and home with 16 or 17 frigotts ;
HATTON,I,9.005.72

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then they were worsted , HATTON,I,9.005.73

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fought stoutly . HATTON,I,9.005.74

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wee say ours have destroyed about of there ships , HATTON,I,9.005.75

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I heare of none they have brought awaie . HATTON,I,9.005.76

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wee say wee have lost men and have wounded . HATTON,I,9.005.77

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lynnen to dresse the wounded men was required in the churches last
Sonday . HATTON,I,9.005.78

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The English fleete is come home , w=ch= will give the Dutch opportunity
to get home there merchaunts . HATTON,I,9.005.79

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The 25th of this monith is appoynted for a day of thanksgiving ,
HATTON,I,9.005.80

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it is said the Dutch $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} as thankfull as wee .
HATTON,I,9.005.81

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
However wee speed heere , 4 of our Est India shipps are taken by the
Dutch in the Persian Gulf , of which newes is come to the discomfort of
the Est India Company . HATTON,I,9.005.82

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lilburne is again uppon his triall . HATTON,I,9.005.83

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Court of Chancery is voted downe . HATTON,I,9.005.84

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And nowe I have troubled your La=p= long enough . HATTON,I,9.005.85

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your friends heere salute you , HATTON,I,9.005.86

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_005:E3:1653:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I rest , Madame , Your La=ps= most humble servaunt , S. Mewce .
HATTON,I,9.005.87

<Q_HAT_A_1654_T_SMEWCE> <L_HATTON_006> <A_S._MEWCE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,10>

{ED:THE_SAME_TO_THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
5th of January , $1665/4 . HATTON,I,10.006.88

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , {ED:...} Your newes there was such as had past heere , but is
vanished into nothing , as perchance anything I may write may doe ere
these come to your hands ; HATTON,I,10.006.89

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I beleive them that tell mee that Whitehall is making verie fyne to
interteyne the newe Protector , and that hee and his lady tooke the
places , I meane the clossetts looking into the chaple at Whitehall ,
w=ch= formerly were used by the King and lately by the Queenes retinewe
. HATTON,I,10.006.90

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wee say 12 chaplains are nowe chosen , 6 Presbiterian , 6 Independents
. HATTON,I,10.006.91

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doubt not but hee may fynd sects enough to make up 48 and not exceed
six of a sort , and yet not troble himself with popish or prelaticall
people . HATTON,I,10.006.92

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Great meanes are make for places in this new houshold .
HATTON,I,10.006.93

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am told the Dutch agents went away on Tuesday night at midnight , the
tide it seemes then serving for that purpose ; HATTON,I,10.006.94

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the busyness is not done , some say , but suspended .
HATTON,I,10.006.95

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Others say they have beene courted and great offers made to them .
HATTON,I,10.006.96

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Perchance they have outwitted us ; HATTON,I,10.006.97

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but wee say that , out of a noble disposion , the Protector hath let
them goe , when hee might have taken there heads whoe had layne soe
long heere as spies . HATTON,I,10.006.98

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Much such stuff I might trouble your Ladyship withall ,
HATTON,I,10.006.99

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I thinke better to spare you and myself , HATTON,I,10.006.100

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_006:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with all humble respects from my wife and myself rest , Madame ,
Your La=ps= most humble serv=t= , S. Mewce . HATTON,I,10.006.101

<Q_HAT_A_1654_T_SMEWCE> <L_HATTON_007> <A_S._MEWCE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,11>

{ED:THE_SAME_TO_THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
12 January , $1653/4 . HATTON,I,11.007.102

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , {ED:...} Nowe the daies begin to lengthen ,
HATTON,I,11.007.103

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
men are generally full of expectation of variety of action .
HATTON,I,11.007.104

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Scotts are numerous and busy ; the Irish sectaries disagreeing
among themselves ; the Leivetennent sent for ; and the Lord Henry
Cromwell designed for that place ; supplies hastned towards Scotland
and pressing of seamen and hast made that waie ; the active people
heere still but not well content ; great preparations for fitting the
house for our new Protector , of whome prophett Arise Evans hath
greater hope then I believe any wise man in England can have .
HATTON,I,11.007.105

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But hee will have the $King heere by our Lady day HATTON,I,11.007.106

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thother the meanes of it {ED:...} HATTON,I,11.007.107

AUTHOR:S._MEWCE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_007:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I rest , Madame , Your La=ps= obedient servaunt , S. Mewce .
HATTON,I,11.007.108

<Q_HAT_A_1654_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_008> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,11>

{ED:CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sep. 28 , $1654 . HATTON,I,11.008.109

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , I doe most humbly beg Mrs B. pardon for not remembring
the last time I writt to give her an account of her command concerning
the sables . HATTON,I,11.008.110

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They tell me for she may have muffe and mantle <P_I,12> <paren> for
tippets is not y=e= mode soe much </paren> of such as will be thought
of y=e= best sort . HATTON,I,12.008.111

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For triall , if you send to my cousine Kytty Newport to see her muff ,
w=ch= cost but 15=li= and for w=ch= she was offred as soone as she had
it brought over , I doubt not she will lend it you ;
HATTON,I,12.008.112

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then , if she please I should find her a chapman , let me but know
it , HATTON,I,12.008.113

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will doe what I can to find out such a one , that <P_I,13> may
lay out her mony to y=e= best advantage . HATTON,I,13.008.114

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But the truth is , the person whom I relyed upon as most skilld in that
affayre , I beleeve <paren> if he be not allready </paren> is leaving
that countrey to come into this . HATTON,I,13.008.115

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The lady you tell me of is not soe well furnishd as you imagine ,
HATTON,I,13.008.116

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and you may remember there never growes good haye upon a bogge ;
HATTON,I,13.008.117

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but no more of that . HATTON,I,13.008.118

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It was no newes to me the stabbing of my Lord Newbury ;
HATTON,I,13.008.119

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I had a letter from Niccols , which told me he spoke with an
officer at Calais that sayd he was forced to leave y=e= Spaniards
quarters for killing him who had beaten him with a cudgell first .
HATTON,I,13.008.120

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have bine all day abroad with the rest of our company at Westwood ,
HATTON,I,13.008.121

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:24?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:22?
LETTER:HATTON_008:E3:1654:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have nothing that I can thinke of more to say but that I can be
never enough Yours . HATTON,I,13.008.122

<Q_HAT_A_1658_TC_TWINDSOR-HICKMAN> <L_HATTON_009>
<A_THOMAS_WINDSOR-HICKMAN> <A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1627?>
<R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,15>

{ED:LORD_WINDSOR.}

{ED:October,_1668.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dear Kitt , I thought you would have been in the country before this
time , HATTON,I,15.009.123

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore did not wright untell Charles Lytleton assured mee you
were in London , which puts mee in fear you will not have time to see
us here , synce you $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} invited to see the
manifficent funerall of his late Highnes and the instolling of the
present Protector ; which , with your owne building , will deprive us
of seeing you here before the tearme . HATTON,I,15.009.124

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I observe all gentlemen were swords ; HATTON,I,15.009.125

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and that I may not looke more lyke a bumking then the rest , I desire
you will bwy mee a lytle wryding sword and belt . HATTON,I,15.009.126

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would not exced five pound price . HATTON,I,15.009.127

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I did see Andrew Newport 's , which hee baught over against the Temple
. HATTON,I,15.009.128

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At the same time Nor: Phill: Howard baught such a one in the same place
. HATTON,I,15.009.129

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If there be another of the same to be had , I desire it , and that you
will send it downe by the Sturbridge horse carrier who lyes at the
Castle in Wood streete and comes oute of the towne on Saterday .
HATTON,I,15.009.130

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This will give you trouble enough , HATTON,I,15.009.131

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:26?
LETTER:HATTON_009:E3:1658:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
therefore I aught to begg your pardon , and conclude with the assurance
of ever being , Dear Kitt , Your most affectionate and obliged servant
, Tho: Windsor . HATTON,I,15.009.132

<Q_HAT_A_1659_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_010> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,18>

{ED:CHARLES_LYTTELTON}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
May 25 , $1659 . HATTON,I,18.010.133

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} possibly describe to you the
humour I am in at the writing of this letter . HATTON,I,18.010.134

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You may easily guesse it when I shall but begin to tell you my m=rs=
was married yesterday in y=e= afternoone to Sir Thomas Rouse , I
knowing nothing of it and as little suspecting it when I came into her
chamber this morning and found him with her ; HATTON,I,18.010.135

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I am confident he that could have guessed it from what I knew of
her intentions but the night before at eleven a clock must pretend to
have bine better skilld in her thoughts and <P_I,19> designes then she
was herself . HATTON,I,19.010.136

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
How it was discovered first to mee and my resentments is not for a
letter discourse , when they are soe apt to miscarry ;
HATTON,I,19.010.137

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , in short , when shee had told it mee after her sister <paren> for
I could not beleeve her </paren> , I swore and stormed , &c .
HATTON,I,19.010.138

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But , in fine , I chose another way , HATTON,I,19.010.139

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , insteed of quarrelling at that any farther w=ch= could not be
helped , I bore it like a man HATTON,I,19.010.140

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and put her againe into his armes with all y=e= expressions of joy that
a friend could have done , and that with such an evenesse that I thinke
I was no longer suspected for a rivall . HATTON,I,19.010.141

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not now tell you neither what crying there has bine both before
and since the wedding , HATTON,I,19.010.142

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I verily thinke there never was any like it . HATTON,I,19.010.143

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
How unworthily her sisters have dealt with mee I am not able to tell
you , HATTON,I,19.010.144

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have no mind they should for the present perceive what my opinion
is . HATTON,I,19.010.145

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I saw my friend to night , who is gone to see them bedded , w=ch= they
were not last night . HATTON,I,19.010.146

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To morrow <paren> it may be </paren> I shall heare more , w=ch= you may
have an account of in time . HATTON,I,19.010.147

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would goe there myself but that I have yet no cloathes that I can
weare , those I had being sent out of towne last weeke , when I
intended to have followed them sooner after then I am now like to doe .
HATTON,I,19.010.148

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And yet , as the case stands , I have not , to say truth , much to doe
heere . HATTON,I,19.010.149

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , a dieu ! HATTON,I,19.010.150

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doe not thinke upon what has happened . HATTON,I,19.010.151

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I ought $not to count myself the more unhappy , but strangely
unfortunate ; HATTON,I,19.010.152

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and soe , as nothing but an uncontroulable fate could have brought $it
upon mee , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} thinke I am y=e= lesse obliged to
you . HATTON,I,19.010.153

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:29?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:27?
LETTER:HATTON_010:E3:1659:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
" Tam teneor dono , quam si dimittar onustus . " HATTON,I,19.010.154

<Q_HAT_A_1661_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_011> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,25>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Arely , HATTON,I,25.011.155

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
15 October $1661 . HATTON,I,25.011.156

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , You must acknowledge wherever I am you will be
persecuted with such troubles as these , HATTON,I,25.011.157

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore you will have reason to be sattisfied w=th= the thoughts
I am likely to be shortly where they can come to you but seldome .
HATTON,I,25.011.158

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I received a letter just now from my Lord $Windsor , w=ch= tells mee
that Mr. Coventry acquaints him the King has given him advance for his
journey , and that the Councell is now readie to consider of his
preparations and instructions , as soone as he please .
HATTON,I,25.011.159

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But he says he shall not be at London till the parliament sitt ,
unlesse Mr. Coventry tell him it is necessarie ; by w=ch= time I intend
to wayte on you too , and would be sooner , were not my mother soe
desirous to see my wife before our going , that I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} but desire her comming hither to wayte on her , and that
then it is necessarie I stay for her . HATTON,I,25.011.160

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This enclosed is to that purposse , for w=ch= reason I pray let it be
carefully sent the next post . HATTON,I,25.011.161

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell how to mention my dear friend , because
I know not how she does . HATTON,I,25.011.162

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
D=r= Kyt , I am in hast . HATTON,I,25.011.163

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Pray tell Dick Lane from mee , if you see him , I am married ;
HATTON,I,25.011.164

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:31?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:29?
LETTER:HATTON_011:E3:1661:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tell mee what they all say of it truly . HATTON,I,25.011.165

<Q_HAT_D_1662_TC_CALYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_012>
<A_CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_FRIEND>
<A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND>
<R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,27>

{ED:LADY_LYTTELTON.}

{ED:Jamaica,}

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Sep. 3rd , 1662 . HATTON,I,27.012.166

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Dear Freind , I thought I should not bee able to write a word to you ,
w=ch= was a great troble to mee , HATTON,I,27.012.167

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
for I am very weak , HATTON,I,27.012.168

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
and accidentally I begunn other letters before yours ,
HATTON,I,27.012.169

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
and , by that time they weer done , <P_I,28> I was soe ill I was not
able to write another ; HATTON,I,28.012.170

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but , now the ships are staid longer then I thought , I have recovered
a little strenth to tell you I am alive , though not well at all ,
being trobled w=th= all the simtomes and pains of a consumtion , w=ch=
I feard before I went from England . HATTON,I,28.012.171

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Yett I have a pritty little boy , HATTON,I,28.012.172

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
and if you saw him make faces you would swear hee weer ligitimate ,
besides blew eyes . HATTON,I,28.012.173

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
I know not whether Charles bee able to write to you ,
HATTON,I,28.012.174

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
for hee is very ill ; HATTON,I,28.012.175

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but I hope the worst is past w=th= him ; HATTON,I,28.012.176

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but the desease of the country , w=ch= is a gripeing of the guts , has
made him very weak . HATTON,I,28.012.177

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Hee told you all hee could from Barbadoes , HATTON,I,28.012.178

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
and I have little more to say but that wee are heer , and that the
towne of St. Jago is very pleasantly situated , HATTON,I,28.012.179

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but the country is much in disorder HATTON,I,28.012.180

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
and looks wild , HATTON,I,28.012.181

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but in time may bee made a good place . HATTON,I,28.012.182

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Our greatest want is good company ; HATTON,I,28.012.183

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but I am soe dull w=th= beeing continually sick , that I think I could
hardly divert my self w=th= any thing . HATTON,I,28.012.184

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
You $can $not {TEXT:cannot} expect therfore any account from mee of any
thing of any description , HATTON,I,28.012.185

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
for I have seene little since I came hither ; HATTON,I,28.012.186

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
yett , for as much as I have seene , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} wish you
should bee at the troble of such a jorney to come hither , though it
would bee the greatest joy to mee that can come to see a freind I love
soe well before I dye ; HATTON,I,28.012.187

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee so much for my self , when I consider
the inconvenience it will bee to you ; HATTON,I,28.012.188

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
but I will not plead against my self . HATTON,I,28.012.189

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
The truth is , I can say noe more of any thing , HATTON,I,28.012.190

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
for I am allready soe weary I know not what to doe .
HATTON,I,28.012.191

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
Therefor adieu , dear freind . HATTON,I,28.012.192

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_LYTTELTON[N.FAIRFAX]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:30?
LETTER:HATTON_012:E3:1662:UNKNOWN:FRIEND
I am , Y=r= most affectionat freind and servant , K. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,28.012.193

<Q_HAT_A_1663_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_013> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,29>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Jameico , HATTON,I,29.013.194

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Jan. 13 , $1662/3 . HATTON,I,29.013.195

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , I have writt to you soe often from this mellancholy
place , HATTON,I,29.013.196

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and having noe returns I can scarce tell how to entertaine you w=th=
enough {with}_P to fill up a letter , unlesse it be of the sadd storyes
of my owne family , w=ch= indeed I have had a deepe share of , it
pleasing God to bring sickness upon every one in it but myself since I
writt last to you . HATTON,I,29.013.197

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My poore wife has bine , as it were by miracle , raised to life twice
with Sir W. Rawleigh 's cordiall , when given over by her phizitians
and all her friends , HATTON,I,29.013.198

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is now , I thanke God , in a probable way to recover , though yet
so weake she can scarce stand . HATTON,I,29.013.199

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Her disease has bine a feaver together with a violent cough w=ch= yet
has not left her . HATTON,I,29.013.200

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She desires exceedingly to returne for England , w=ch= I am desirous of
too , HATTON,I,29.013.201

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , if it please God to give her strength to get a shippboard , I am
willing she should venture the voyage ; HATTON,I,29.013.202

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for in this place she $can $not {TEXT:cannot} live , there being
nothing in this countrey like to cure the spleene , w=ch= is indeed the
ground of all her illnesse . HATTON,I,29.013.203

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My brother $Constantine enjoyed a very good health a long time ,
HATTON,I,29.013.204

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but at length the feavor seized him w=th= the yellow jawndies , whereof
he died ; w=ch= has bine a greate affliction to mee , and a losse
otherwise ; HATTON,I,29.013.205

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I was deeply engaged w=th= him upon a planting interest , whereby I
had greate hope to have settled a good fortune , w=ch= now is quite
lost , I being not at leizure , by reason of my other employment , to
attend that , HATTON,I,29.013.206

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor , if I were not , could I hope to doe what was expected by all from
him , then whom indeed no man that ever came hither there was a better
opinion of , for that matter , HATTON,I,29.013.207

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was in this respect esteemed a greate losse to the place , and soe
lamented by them . HATTON,I,29.013.208

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My man Matt died a few days before him , leaving a dolefull widdow ,
w=ch= was my wife 's mayd Besse . HATTON,I,29.013.209

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This has been a terrible sick place HATTON,I,29.013.210

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and a greate many have died that came w=th= us . HATTON,I,29.013.211

<P_I,30>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have written to you formerly of severall thinges concerning my stay
heere , w=ch= I hope will not miscarry ; HATTON,I,30.013.212

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and truly , I have soe much to write of the publique now , that I $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} attend my owne concerne soe much as I have need of ,
to repeate them . HATTON,I,30.013.213

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Besides that , I am soe buisy w=th= all in the dispatch of a fleete I
am sending upon the Spanish coasts , w=ch= I have hopes will doe his
Ma=tie= and our nation some honour and service . HATTON,I,30.013.214

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have writt thereof to Sir Edward Nicolas and Mr. Coventry and my Lord
Windsore . HATTON,I,30.013.215

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray informe me what opinion they have of my adventure therein , as
of the rest I endeavor to serve the King in heere . HATTON,I,30.013.216

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have , I hope , deserved well from his Ma=tie= by my care in the
building the fort heere , w=ch= I would have you , as you have ocasion
, enquire if the King be made to understand . HATTON,I,30.013.217

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , your father , I conceive , may by enquiry of Mr. Secretary
Nicolas doe mee greate favour therein . HATTON,I,30.013.218

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee have bine hugely slighted heere , having never had one shipp sent
us since wee came away , w=ch= would have broke my Lord 's heart ,
though nothing else had contributed , if he had stayd .
HATTON,I,30.013.219

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If this find thee at Guernsey or England , or in any part of the world
, I could be glad to be with thee for some time . HATTON,I,30.013.220

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Soe , d=r= Kytt , farewell , HATTON,I,30.013.221

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and contrive y=t= kindnesse to your servant , C. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,30.013.222

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I get very little mony heere HATTON,I,30.013.223

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and spend a greate deale , my wife 's illnesse obliging mee to keepe
two familyes apart , by reason that $they will not give her leave to
live heere at the sea side , HATTON,I,30.013.224

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and my employment will engage mee to be muche there .
HATTON,I,30.013.225

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I considered my owne interest alltogether , I am , I doubt , some
hundreds worse then when I came out . HATTON,I,30.013.226

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Seale office is worth nothing to mee . HATTON,I,30.013.227

<P_I,31>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I cast up my accounts to day , HATTON,I,31.013.228

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have made of it in all but 45=li= , w=ch= is worse then I hope to
doe againe this halfe yeare . HATTON,I,31.013.229

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They are all very poore HATTON,I,31.013.230

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thinke theyr title good enough allready , since they are not
disturbed in it . HATTON,I,31.013.231

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have received yet but groates for soe many acres of all the land of
Jameico . HATTON,I,31.013.232

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_013:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest has bine for houses built upon the point Cague .
HATTON,I,31.013.233

<Q_HAT_A_1663_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_014> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,31>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Jamaica , HATTON,I,31.014.234

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Feb. 26 , $1662/3 . HATTON,I,31.014.235

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , There is nobody in the world I can soe justly complaine
to of the losse of your deare friend , because you were best acquainted
how well I loved her and how much she deserved it ; HATTON,I,31.014.236

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor is there any one , I am sure , will pertake with mee soe much of my
trouble in kindnesse to your self and mee , having both lost a friend .
HATTON,I,31.014.237

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I can hardly tell <paren> though of a different relation </paren> to
w=ch= of us she was the most valuable ; HATTON,I,31.014.238

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and as the returnes she made us both were just , though very greate , I
had ever the better esteeme of the share I challendged
HATTON,I,31.014.239

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for that w=ch= she would ever acknowledge was due to you ;
HATTON,I,31.014.240

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet how unkind am I now to you , that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
help from saying , what would I not give to be with you to tell the
many sadd storyes w=ch= , whenever you heare , I am sure you will be
troubled enough for ! HATTON,I,31.014.241

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And there are some concerning that poor <P_I,32> girle w=ch= , by the
appearance of other transactions you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} suspect ,
I have soe much reason as I have to hate and will make you doe soe too
<paren> but for the present I must be silent </paren> somebody that I
have bine necessitated <paren> I confesse basely enough </paren> to
acknowledge to the world my self most obliged ; HATTON,I,32.014.242

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I have something to palliate the matter in theyr behalf , if
unheard of pride and inhumane discourtesy to a lady of her meritt may
be allowed of , because it wanted the mallice to be purpossely acted to
her prejudice . HATTON,I,32.014.243

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You $can $not {TEXT:cannot} guesse what this meanes ,
HATTON,I,32.014.244

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor is it fitt for mee to tell you yet , not knowing into what hands
this may fall ; HATTON,I,32.014.245

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor , it may bee , doe they that did it remember it ,
HATTON,I,32.014.246

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for , to say truth , I could never make them understand how sensible I
was of it , but by makeinge her condition , as my owne , soe much the
worse another way , there being no medium to complaine of such a thinge
and not to quarrell about it , w=ch= was not to be done with one I was
forced to depend on , HATTON,I,32.014.247

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and besides that , it could not be mended afterwards .
HATTON,I,32.014.248

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But , least this may give you any suspition there was any thinge of the
common rudenesses to women in this , I have allready expressed it , as
well as I can , to be of a quite different nature . HATTON,I,32.014.249

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I did not intend ever to have told you so much till wee mett ,
HATTON,I,32.014.250

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , it may be , I shall never more mention it to theyr prejudice ,
because I know it was soe absolutely forgiven by her , if not forgotten
, and soe I know desired it should be by mee ; though it had this in it
to be remembered , that I verily perswade myself <paren> if there be
any exception to what the will of God has determined </paren> , had
this mischiefe and inconvenience bine prevented , she might at this day
have bine a healthfull and truly a happy woman , there being nothing I
know w=ch= made either of us , while we could enjoy one another 's
company , lesse soe then the most envyed , had wee bine freed from
those wants and penury in our fortune , w=ch= I thank God truly I , nor
would she , have had but small reason now to compleine of ; a
consideration w=ch= makes my happinesse therein the lesse , and my
losse of her the greater , who knew not how to covett for any thinge
soe much as for her sake , as will appeare <P_I,33> enough by my
slighting soe much as I doe the being continued in this employment .
HATTON,I,33.014.251

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And truly I am wholly indifferent to whatever my master thinkes mee
most capable to serve him in ; HATTON,I,33.014.252

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , if he recall my comission as Governor , I shall stay heere I
thinke but a little while after , any other employ in this place being
not worth the owninge , HATTON,I,33.014.253

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor , as my Lord has ordred that I have , is that much better ;
HATTON,I,33.014.254

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , if I am continued , I doubt not I shall have a commission from a
better hand . HATTON,I,33.014.255

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You must not wonder at blotts in writinges from hence ,
HATTON,I,33.014.256

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} imagine how infinitely this place does
indispose every one to writing or any kind of study .
HATTON,I,33.014.257

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am now soe weary I can scarce tell what I write , HATTON,I,33.014.258

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore desire you will sattisfie yourself in other matters
concerning mee out of my brother 's letters . HATTON,I,33.014.259

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:33?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:31?
LETTER:HATTON_014:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , continue to love thyne owne C. L . HATTON,I,33.014.260

<Q_HAT_A_1664_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_015> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,40>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Southampton , HATTON,I,40.015.261

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nov. 26 , 1664 . HATTON,I,40.015.262

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , His $Royal $Highness went aboard the Swiftsure on
Thursday last ; the Charles w=th= y=e= rest of y=e= fleet being not
then come to Portsmouth out of y=e= Downes , as they did yesterday
morning ; soe that now the Duke is aboard his owne shippe ,
HATTON,I,40.015.263

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and has under his flagg most certainely the best fleete that ever the
sea boare , if what account wee had of the ancients be not a mistake
and that they were short of the present times ; HATTON,I,40.015.264

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for none in our age , in y=e= opinion of all our seamen , was ever soe
good as this . HATTON,I,40.015.265

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And , as Sir John Lawson says , according to an eye of reason and if
God says amen to it , the Dutch are not able to deale with our master
the King of England . HATTON,I,40.015.266

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When the Duke went aboard , the wind was at E. S. E. , fayre for the
<P_I,41> Dutch to come out . HATTON,I,41.015.267

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday and the night before , it blew soe hard that , if they did ,
I beleeve they wisht themselves at home againe , having none of our
ports to friend . HATTON,I,41.015.268

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At present it is calme , HATTON,I,41.015.269

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and soe our fleete $can $not {TEXT:cannot} stirr ; HATTON,I,41.015.270

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , if the Dutch be out and the wind come fayre , you will heare of
an engagement in a day $or 2 or 3 ; HATTON,I,41.015.271

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if it be soe soone , I shall not have the pleasure nor the danger
in being in it , HATTON,I,41.015.272

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the Duke has commanded mee hither w=th= the remaining part of his
regim=t= , w=ch= are allmost men , there being but gone to sea , to
settle them in theyr quarter at this place ; HATTON,I,41.015.273

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , after , has given mee leave to wayte on him in the fleete , w=ch=
I shall make w=ht= hast I can to doe . HATTON,I,41.015.274

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke 's traine is not soe greate neere as it had beene , by reason
of a command from the King that all the $Parliament men should returne
to sitt in the house , w=ch= mett on Thursday , HATTON,I,41.015.275

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for it mightily concerned him that the house fayle not of theyr
assistance to y=e= carrying on of the warr , w=ch= has beene prepared
for hitherto contrary to the expectation of the Dutch , and surely of
the whole world ; HATTON,I,41.015.276

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sure you are much to blame , if you can help it , not to be heere
at such a time as this . HATTON,I,41.015.277

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord Fitzharden came to y=e= Duke , the day he went aboard , from
France , where he has beene , I presume , to feele the French how they
will concerne themselves between us and y=e= Dutch ;
HATTON,I,41.015.278

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I beleeve he has brought back a favourable account , because he
seemes well pleased w=th= his journey , and was mightily carressed by
rich presents and other honours done him there . HATTON,I,41.015.279

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The French have bine lately mightily humbled at Gigery by the losse of
at least 4 or men , theyr fort , and 36 brasse gunnes ;
HATTON,I,41.015.280

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , since that , have lost a shipp going thither w=th= recruites of
men , w=ch= was half the regim=t= of Picardie , the best they had in
France . HATTON,I,41.015.281

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The peace to in Germany went hugely ags=t= the haire w=th= him ;
HATTON,I,41.015.282

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the greatest mischiefe of the Turkes army , <P_I,42> in the last
fight , fell cheifely on the French , who were allmost all cutt of .
HATTON,I,42.015.283

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thinke I told you in my last by Mr. Morhead that L=d= Fitz-Arden had
declared his mariage w=th= M=rs= Bagott that was the Duchesses mayd .
HATTON,I,42.015.284

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I beleeve I told you too M=r= Oneale was dead , and M=r= Hamilton had
his place in the bedchamber , and S=r= William Blakestone his troope of
horse . HATTON,I,42.015.285

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I mistake : HATTON,I,42.015.286

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
L=d= Hawley had his troope , and S=r= William L=d= Hawley 's .
HATTON,I,42.015.287

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know nothing more now to tell you , HATTON,I,42.015.288

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have beene out of towne this weeke . HATTON,I,42.015.289

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
O yes ! I had forgott a mighty thing . HATTON,I,42.015.290

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Northern Tom Howard is married to y=e= Duchesse of Richmond ,
HATTON,I,42.015.291

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they say $they are the fondest couple that can be .
HATTON,I,42.015.292

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare she will have a considerable joynture , above $=li=
{TEXT:4,000=li=} . HATTON,I,42.015.293

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Duke of Buck: , they say , was mightily troubled at y=e= match ;
HATTON,I,42.015.294

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I heare the Duke of Ormond upon it desired the Duke of Buck. to
settle his estate on his daughter in law , Lady Arran ;
HATTON,I,42.015.295

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but hee refused it , saying , that if his sister have a sonne <paren>
and by the way she is w=th= child </paren> , he thought it more
reasonable that $it should inherritt his estate , as well as it will
doe his honours ; soe that L=d= Arran 's expectations are mightily
defeated in this match , HATTON,I,42.015.296

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he has certaine and a high borne pritty lady . HATTON,I,42.015.297

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard one say it was the only thing had gone crosse to y=e= Duke of
Ormond 's grandeur since his returne from abroade , HATTON,I,42.015.298

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I thinke it be pritty true . HATTON,I,42.015.299

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Oneale died not soe rich as the <P_I,43> world thought him .
HATTON,I,43.015.300

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His new house had mightily drained him . HATTON,I,43.015.301

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I verily hoped , when I saw y=t= groome heere , he had bine come from
you ; HATTON,I,43.015.302

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but found he has bine heere ever since I saw him at London , and y=r=
horses . HATTON,I,43.015.303

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hee says hee sent my letters , HATTON,I,43.015.304

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but y=r= tobacco and chocolato I thinke he says are in the shipp still
w=th= the horses . HATTON,I,43.015.305

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I long to heare from you , w=ch= I have not done a greate while .
HATTON,I,43.015.306

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_015:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=rs= eturnally . HATTON,I,43.015.307

<Q_HAT_A_1664_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_016> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,43>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Southampton , HATTON,I,43.016.308

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dec. , 1664 . HATTON,I,43.016.309

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , By the last post from London I received y=rs= of the 24
of No=br= 1664 , HATTON,I,43.016.310

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and before this I hope you have had severall of mine w=ch= lay here
windbound w=th= y=r= servant and hors , and one I writt by him since I
came hither . HATTON,I,43.016.311

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have bine heere ever since to looke after the regim=t= , w=ch= is a
duller thinge then Guernesey by half ; HATTON,I,43.016.312

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell when I am like to be released ,
HATTON,I,43.016.313

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but expect by my Coll. or some other of y=e= officers coming downe very
speedily , w=ch= will be too late I feare though to doe you any service
in w=ht= you desire of mee . HATTON,I,43.016.314

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For most certainely <paren> I beleeve </paren> Capt. Sheldon , as I
told you , has his comission to be Deputy Gov=r= of Garnsey ,
HATTON,I,43.016.315

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and his company was raised before I came out of towne ;
HATTON,I,43.016.316

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but why not marcht this way , as they were designed , and soe to be
transported to you , I never enquired before now HATTON,I,43.016.317

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet be resolved . HATTON,I,43.016.318

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If they are gone any other way , you have heard on them , I presume ,
ere this . HATTON,I,43.016.319

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Because you desire it , I must acquaint you that the common whispers
and open talke has beene that you have received the pay of y=e=
souldier at Garnesey for above a 12 month and payd the souldier never a
penny ; HATTON,I,43.016.320

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , if this be not true , you will doe very well to say something in
justification of <P_I,44> y=r= selves . HATTON,I,44.016.321

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Of y=r= other transactions I heare never a word . HATTON,I,44.016.322

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When I speake next w=th= Capt. Dorvill , who is now at London , it may
be I shall heare more . HATTON,I,44.016.323

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Dutch came out as farr as Goree HATTON,I,44.016.324

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and suddenly tooke a resolution to returne into theyr ports . Upon
which , his R. H. , after being 6 or 7 days at sea , returned w=th=
most of the fleete , and last Sunday morning hee and Prince $Rupert
went for London , there being nothing for our shipps to doe , but to
ply too and againe to pick up theyr merchant shipps , w=ch= they have
done to a considerable number . HATTON,I,44.016.325

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But wee feare that the last Saturday , in the greate mist , most of
theyr Bordeaux fleete stole by . HATTON,I,44.016.326

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee tooke about 16 of them . HATTON,I,44.016.327

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet the last post I saw a letter to M=r= Risball of this towne that the
Dutch were making all the preparation they could to put out againe to
sea ; HATTON,I,44.016.328

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I can 't give credit to it . HATTON,I,44.016.329

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The the parliam=t= has given the King no doubt has mightily apaled
theyr courage and given us soe great a reputation that the course they
intended , by protracting the warr and soe wearying of us out , will in
theyr owne judgm=ts= little avayle them . HATTON,I,44.016.330

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And they must needes see , HATTON,I,44.016.331

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or they will in reason feele to theyr cost , that theyr force is not
able to contend w=th= us . HATTON,I,44.016.332

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
How the K=g= of France will appeare further in this affaire is hard to
guesse ; HATTON,I,44.016.333

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the reception of y=e= L=d= Fitz-Arden was very courtly ,
HATTON,I,44.016.334

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they have sent another , I know not who , since , in y=e= quallity
{in}_P he went of envoye extraordinary , by way of returne to his
complem=t= ; w=ch= I should tell you , by the by , was pretended only
for to visit the Queene of France , who was upon the matter a dying and
was brought to bed of a child , some say all black , others mulatto
only ; HATTON,I,44.016.335

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but it is very odde most certainely . HATTON,I,44.016.336

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have heard , half black and half white . HATTON,I,44.016.337

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My company is quartered at Winchester . HATTON,I,44.016.338

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We are mighty well paid . HATTON,I,44.016.339

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Prince Rupert by a chance has bruised his head HATTON,I,44.016.340

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} gett cured . HATTON,I,44.016.341

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is gone up to London , to endeavor it there ; HATTON,I,44.016.342

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , if effected , they say he comes downe this winter to Tichfield ,
my L=d= Treasorer 's house , and will live there

. HATTON,I,44.016.344

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is mightily worne <P_I,45> away , HATTON,I,45.016.345

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , in theyr opinions that are much about him , is not long lived .
HATTON,I,45.016.346

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He would faine goe yet to Guinnee , HATTON,I,45.016.347

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , I heare , is endeavoring to be dispatcht thither .
HATTON,I,45.016.348

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He believes the warmth of that clyme would doe him good ;
HATTON,I,45.016.349

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
besides , there will be more to be gott , w=ch= I thinke he has no
reason or very little though to consider . HATTON,I,45.016.350

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Adieu . HATTON,I,45.016.351

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am y=rs= , C. L . HATTON,I,45.016.352

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dec. 11 . HATTON,I,45.016.353

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare againe by the post that the Dutch have given order to new
victuall theyr fleete and will out this winter . HATTON,I,45.016.354

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They have taken too , I heare , some of our colliers from Newcastle ;
HATTON,I,45.016.355

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:34?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:32?
LETTER:HATTON_016:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet they say there came an ambassador extraordinary from them who
had audience a Thursday last . HATTON,I,45.016.356

<Q_HAT_A_1665_TC_TWINDSOR-HICKMAN> <L_HATTON_017>
<A_THOMAS_WINDSOR-HICKMAN> <A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1627?>
<R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,45>

{ED:LORD_WINDSOR}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Mar. 4 , $1664/5 . HATTON,I,45.017.357

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Dear Kitt , Your letter gives mee greate satisfaction by telling mee of
the King 's kindness to you , which you have alwayes so well deserved
from him ; HATTON,I,45.017.358

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and though hee would have loaded you with business , which from an
other person might have been insuportable , yett the favour of a king
does much inable one to dispatch business , HATTON,I,45.017.359

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for it gives a fresh life to wearied spirritts ; HATTON,I,45.017.360

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if you will give mee leave to bee so free with you as to tell you
my judgment of y=r= selfe , it is <paren> and so you will finde it
</paren> that you are fitter for business and can make quicker dispatch
of it then your lazy humour will suffer you to beleeve .
HATTON,I,45.017.361

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But business of reputation $is an advantage will soone cure you of that
disease , HATTON,I,45.017.362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , if you have but good successs in the transeactions <paren> which
you have no reason to doute of </paren> , you will take more pleasure
in that sort of toiling then ever you did in other <P_I,46>
entertainements . HATTON,I,46.017.363

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If your short stay will give you leasure , I desire you will first
ingage to keepe my councell and then make this discovery for mee
without letting Sir Charles Lytleton know I am att all concearned for
it . HATTON,I,46.017.364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thinck $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} not in some degree unknowne to you that in
our voiage to Jamaica , and whilest I was there and when I came away ,
that I did advantage him and oblige him all that was possible for mee
to doe , if hee had been my owne brother tenn thousand times ,
HATTON,I,46.017.365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , synce my returne , by your letter to him , I did release him of
his promis of giving mee one halfe of his gaines <paren> which I am
hartely glad are so much as it appeers to be </paren> , in returne of
which I thought his freindship to mee would rather have been increased
and confirmed then declined and estrainged , so much that I have never
<paren> as formerly </paren> been of his councell in anything or
receaved the civillity of one letter synce I left London , being 9
months att least , although Sir Ralph Clare and others in these parts
have , whome I am sure hath not deserved so well of him <paren> or are
likely to doe so </paren> ; HATTON,I,46.017.366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I have had but two commands of proffitt given mee synce the King 's
returne , HATTON,I,46.017.367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
one was the troope of horse , HATTON,I,46.017.368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I gave him of my owne accord the next command to myselfe and the
whole proffitt of the troope , which he did acknowlidge came to as much
as the whole pay , and the like at Jamaica ; HATTON,I,46.017.369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I doe protest I came home poorer by near $=l= {TEXT:2000=l=} then I
was when I sett to sea HATTON,I,46.017.370

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<paren> and that he can not say </paren> . HATTON,I,46.017.371

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have no want of his freindship , HATTON,I,46.017.372

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
neither doe I beleeve I ever shall , HATTON,I,46.017.373

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore I will not seek the restoration oft ; HATTON,I,46.017.374

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but desire you will discover what is the ground of his declining mee ,
HATTON,I,46.017.375

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I never tooke delight in losing a freind . HATTON,I,46.017.376

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WINDSOR_HICKMAN:MALE:FRIEND:1627?:38?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_017:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your most affectionate freind and very humble servant , Windsor .
HATTON,I,46.017.377

<Q_HAT_A_1665_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_018> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,47>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yorke , HATTON,I,47.018.378

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
August 7 , 1665 . HATTON,I,47.018.379

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deere Kitt , Last night wee gott hither , having bine mightily feasted
and welcomed by the appearance of the nobillity and gentlemen of the
contrys with the volunteer troopes as wee passd ; but more especially
at S=r= George Saville 's , whose entertainment was indeed very
splendid . HATTON,I,47.018.380

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hard by his house mett us on the way my L=d= of Newcastle and my Lady ,
whose behavior was very pleasant , but rather to be seene then told .
HATTON,I,47.018.381

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She was dressd in a vest , HATTON,I,47.018.382

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , insteed of courtesies , made leggs and bows to the ground with
her hand and head . HATTON,I,47.018.383

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke made his entry heere very gloriously , being attended by a
greate many nobillity and gentry of theese parts , w=th= guards of
severall regim=ts= and troopes ; the Lord Mayor <paren> who presented
him , after a very long and courtly speech , to acknowledge his Royal
High=ss= his merrit from the nation for the late victory and other his
heroick acts , w=th= a purse of a in gold , and another to the Duchesse
</paren> and all the aldermen and chiefe cittisens going bare before us
. HATTON,I,47.018.384

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Our stay heere , I see , does absolutely depend on the healthinesse of
the south ; unlesse some other mischeife blow northward , w=ch= I doe
not find is apprehended . HATTON,I,47.018.385

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee have no news of the fleete . HATTON,I,47.018.386

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I beleeve I shall stay heere as long as the Court , and , it may be ,
have businesse of my owne , you may guesse w=ht= , to ingage mee .
HATTON,I,47.018.387

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke and Duchesse have bine both very obliging to mee therein ,
HATTON,I,47.018.388

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , though I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell you it has bine with such
successe as I have yet reaped any greate advantage by , I beleeve it
more possible then {it}_NP-SBJ I did to gaine greater in time .
HATTON,I,47.018.389

<P_I,48>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I lay a Friday night at Steeton , where you were much enquired of .
HATTON,I,48.018.390

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Bell is growne very tall , and , to my thinking , much handsomer .
HATTON,I,48.018.391

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I shall be very glad to heare how you doe . HATTON,I,48.018.392

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Pray let mee doe it , as soone and as often as you can .
HATTON,I,48.018.393

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am Yrs . HATTON,I,48.018.394

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:35?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:33?
LETTER:HATTON_018:E3:1665:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My humble services to all w=th= you . HATTON,I,48.018.395

<Q_HAT_A_1666_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_019> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,48>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
From my house in y=e= Mues , Jan. , $1666 . HATTON,I,48.019.396

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
D=r= Kytt , Y=rs= of the 27 I have , HATTON,I,48.019.397

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and find you a kind of prophett , HATTON,I,48.019.398

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for wee are really in greate apprehension of y=e= French landing upon
us , they having drawn downe a greate force to Dunkirke , and broughte
thither boates and preparations for to make some such attempt ;
HATTON,I,48.019.399

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and besides have another army in Normandie , w=th= w=ch= they seeme to
designe an attaque some other way . HATTON,I,48.019.400

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The K=g= has satt very hard at a councell of warr , since his being at
Hampton , w=ht= opposition shall be made ; the effects of which I
presume wee shall quickly know . HATTON,I,48.019.401

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time , we have better news at home , HATTON,I,48.019.402

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the sicknesse is like to abate quite , HATTON,I,48.019.403

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the King will be heere on Thursday , and , I beleeve , hardly
returne againe . HATTON,I,48.019.404

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Queene too we have greate hope heere is w=th= child .
HATTON,I,48.019.405

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Last night my L=d= Arlington writt to Doctor Hinton to hasten his
attendance upon her Ma=tie= ; HATTON,I,48.019.406

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I saw a letter from a lady at Oxford of our acquaintance that does
hugely confirm it . HATTON,I,48.019.407

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am in hast , HATTON,I,48.019.408

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
soe farewell . HATTON,I,48.019.409

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:36?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_019:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am y=rs= , C. L . HATTON,I,48.019.410

<Q_HAT_A_1666_FN_EHATTON> <L_HATTON_020>
<A_ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,50>

{ED:LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sept. 22 $1666 . HATTON,I,50.020.411

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My dearst Dear , Since y=r= father tells me y=t= your stay att London
is by my L=ad= Thenit and Sicelea command to wait one y=m= into y=e=
contry , I must not chid you , though I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but
tell you , and y=t= truly , that I am very much troubled y=t= I doe not
see you , and the more because I fear y=r= father will not give me
leave to goe up w=th= him w=n= he goes . HATTON,I,50.020.412

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I presume you were shewed y=e= fine things y=r= father brought me :
farrender for a gowne , and 6 pair of gloves , and a paire of stockens
, w=ch= is more y=n= I hoped for ; HATTON,I,50.020.413

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so sensible I am of y=e= kindnes y=t= I desir you to help me to
thank him for it . HATTON,I,50.020.414

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is pleased to speak kindly to me , HATTON,I,50.020.415

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is more cheerfull y=n= he was when he was last in the contry ;
HATTON,I,50.020.416

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall be as carfull not to say any thing y=t= may displease him ,
w=ch= puts me to a great stand in respect of other necessarys , both-3
for myself and y=r= poor sister Mary , who he has not given y=e= worth
of one penny to , nor till to day has not spoak one word to her , w=ch=
is a very great trouble both-6 to her and me . HATTON,I,50.020.417

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thank you for y=r= letter by y=e= carrier last week .
HATTON,I,50.020.418

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did not writ again by him , because I had writ so lately by y=e= boy
y=t= carried up y=r= father 's horses . HATTON,I,50.020.419

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My humble service to y=e= Lady Thanet and my Lady Cicelea .
HATTON,I,50.020.420

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= sister disir y=e= same to you and to the L=a= Cicelea .
HATTON,I,50.020.421

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She is so troubled att y=r= fathers not looking one her as upon others
, that really you must excuse her not writting to you .
HATTON,I,50.020.422

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My dear , though I doe not see you , I hope you think often of me .
HATTON,I,50.020.423

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I assure you I do of you w=th= as great kindnes as any mother can doe
for a childe , HATTON,I,50.020.424

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HATTON[N.MONTAGU]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:SON:1632?:34?
LETTER:HATTON_020:E3:1666:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and trust God will hear the prayers y=t= are made day and night for you
by Y=r= most truly affectionat mother , y=e= afflicted $Elizabeth
Hatton HATTON,I,50.020.425

<Q_HAT_A_1667_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_021> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,51>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Harwich , HATTON,I,51.021.426

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
May 21 , 1667 . HATTON,I,51.021.427

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Deerest Kytt , I have kept my chamber ever since last Tuesday , falling
very ill again then of a feavor and ague ; HATTON,I,51.021.428

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I thanke God am now gott downe staires againe , HATTON,I,51.021.429

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet dare not venture abroade , HATTON,I,51.021.430

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the wind blows soe hard , and colder I thinke too then anywhere in the
world else , at this time of y=e= year , w=ch= not only I that am sick
but allmost every one els complaines on . HATTON,I,51.021.431

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not heard from you a greate while , <P_I,52> w=ch= makes mee
feare you are not well neither . HATTON,I,52.021.432

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My ensigne went to London w=th= my leave , about a weeke after I came
hither , for 8 days , HATTON,I,52.021.433

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is not yet returned . HATTON,I,52.021.434

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The last post I had a letter to excuse it , because he was sick ;
HATTON,I,52.021.435

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but since , I am well informed , hee has married a dirty tapstresse ,
HATTON,I,52.021.436

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , this being knowne , have an opinion hee is ashamed to returne
among us . HATTON,I,52.021.437

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For other reasons I am not much in love w=th= his companie ,
HATTON,I,52.021.438

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and would be glad to bee ridde of him ; HATTON,I,52.021.439

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet am not resolved to adde to his misfortune by turning him out ag=st=
his will . HATTON,I,52.021.440

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But , if it soe happen that wee agree to part , I give you this account
, to put you in mind of w=ht= Commissary Baynes spoke to mee concerning
another young gentleman allmost as unlucky as himself , my namesake ,
though I know the service I would doe him in this matter would help him
but a little out of it , and is indeed alltogether unworthy of him who
deserves soe much better ; HATTON,I,52.021.441

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet , if hee be resolved that way , I doubt his relations he has lately
contracted may obstruct his pretences to any thing that way much more
considerable , and that the being entred once into employment , though
soe meanely , will give him the easier accesse to a better .
HATTON,I,52.021.442

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Say nothing though to him directly of it , till I have disposed of him
I have , w=ch= , as I told you , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet be sure
to doe to my mind , nor would be soe desirous to put away , but to
serve my namesake ; HATTON,I,52.021.443

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
therefore let mee heare quietely from you about it .
HATTON,I,52.021.444

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
We expect the Duch every hower upon our coast , HATTON,I,52.021.445

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore you may judge I am as buisy as I can bee , in y=e=
condition {in}_P I am at least . HATTON,I,52.021.446

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tomorrow I hope though to bee upon y=e= workes again to prepare for
them . HATTON,I,52.021.447

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Pray let me know w=ht= becomes of Lady Richm=d= , and where those
vacant howers are spent now that used to be passd away at her chamber .
HATTON,I,52.021.448

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yrs . HATTON,I,52.021.449

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Humblest services to Lady Cicilly . HATTON,I,52.021.450

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_021:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Pray tell mee when you intend to be married . HATTON,I,52.021.451

<Q_HAT_A_1667_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_022> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,53>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
July 11 $1667 . HATTON,I,53.022.452

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
D=r= Kytt , I thanke you for the pleasant account you gave mee of y=r=
tattered regim=t= , HATTON,I,53.022.453

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and am glad your owne company is soe good . HATTON,I,53.022.454

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am very confident the Duch will not attempt any more upon the river ,
at least soe high as Gravesend , HATTON,I,53.022.455

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , though wee fortifie all we can still against them heere , yet I
thinke they will have as little mind to trouble us .
HATTON,I,53.022.456

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They doe indeed lye still w=th= a squadron of theyr fleete in sight ,
HATTON,I,53.022.457

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and soe wee $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be confident . HATTON,I,53.022.458

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My L=d= Berkly was left by the Duke on the Suffolk side , to command
the forces there <P_I,54> in quallity of L=t= Generall , w=ch= quite
takes away my L=d= of Suffolke 's authority as L=d= Leiftenant ;
HATTON,I,54.022.459

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
soe I suppose he withdrawes . HATTON,I,54.022.460

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
L=d= of Oxford continues to command heere , as he did .
HATTON,I,54.022.461

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My wife has had both my Ladyes letters , HATTON,I,54.022.462

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but is soe continually sick w=th= <paren> I thinke </paren> breeding ,
that she can do nothing but puke . HATTON,I,54.022.463

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:37?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:35?
LETTER:HATTON_022:E3:1667:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=rs= , C. L . HATTON,I,54.022.464

<Q_HAT_A_1671_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_023> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,62>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Landguard , HATTON,I,62.023.465

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
August 8th , 1671 . HATTON,I,62.023.466

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I have y=rs= of y=e= 25 July , w=ch= made us all laugh
extremely at y=t= part of Bruces being shot , HATTON,I,62.023.467

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I should have told you Rewse , if I did not . HATTON,I,62.023.468

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is ensigne to Capt. Bennet at Hull . HATTON,I,62.023.469

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Now y=t= Brewse w=th= you does owne any thing like it , is so like
himself , that you must know he is a boy that has ever had y=e= fame of
having an excellent fancy that way to tell strange thinges of himself
or anybody else . HATTON,I,62.023.470

<P_I,63>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have heard no more of L=d= Windsor since he was in y=e= Tower , but
that he was mightily complemented by visitts from all the towne , and
stayd there , I thinke , about a fortnight , and , then released , came
to Windsore and kissed the King 's hand there . HATTON,I,63.023.471

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Councill would heare nothing in favour of him . HATTON,I,63.023.472

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They looked upon his challenge to a person in y=t= employment of L=t=
of Ireland as such an affront to y=e= King , as nothing should have
made him presume to recent it at that rate . HATTON,I,63.023.473

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doe think it was ill timed to send a challeng to one that was going
to give an account of such an employ ; HATTON,I,63.023.474

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for sure my L=d= L=t= , as a cavaleere as well as a L=d= L=t= , might
very reasonably refuse a challenge , till that was over .
HATTON,I,63.023.475

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is going L=t= againe . HATTON,I,63.023.476

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
W=ht= you tell mee of L=d= Rockingham and S=r= Norwich I never heard of
, HATTON,I,63.023.477

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but from y=r= L=p=. I had news last post , w=ch= I can scarce creditt ,
that there is one of y=e= King 's yachs ordered to goe to y=e= Duch
fleete and to require theyr admirall to strike his flagg , and , if he
doe not , to fire at him . HATTON,I,63.023.478

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King is expected in these countreys the later end of y=e= month ,
and to be treated at Norwich by the L=d= Harry Howard .
HATTON,I,63.023.479

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am glad to find by y=r= L=ps= that your company is so well pleased
w=th= Guernesey , because y=r= L=p= likes so well to be there ;
HATTON,I,63.023.480

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I hope I may tell you somethinge of the like of mine heere ,
HATTON,I,63.023.481

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for , for the same reasons w=ch= y=r= L=p= mentions of y=e= charge of
doing that to settle , as other thinges , it will be inconvenient for
mee to make but a short stay , HATTON,I,63.023.482

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and truly , if it be not for a month to goe see my b=r= , I intend not
to stirr , unlesse I am commanded , till after X=t=masse .
HATTON,I,63.023.483

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had a letter lately , from one a little concerned to have it so ,
that Phill. Honniwood would leave Portsmouth and y=t= I should be sent
<P_I,64> thither . HATTON,I,64.023.484

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nothing in it would please mee better then y=t= I should lye more in
y=r= L=ps= way and be more at hand to doe you service .
HATTON,I,64.023.485

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee have our healths heere very well , HATTON,I,64.023.486

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I beleeve it as healthfull a place as can be . HATTON,I,64.023.487

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I $can $n't {TEXT:cant} tell if in my last I told you that when the
Queene was at Hampton Court one day rideing abroad , it raining , and
my Lady Marshall and Lady Gerrard being in her coach , her Majestie
came into y=e= coach and called in the two Duchesses , Buck and
Richmond , and left the other ladyes upon y=e= common to shift for
themselves , w=ch= you may beleeve was no small greife to them .
HATTON,I,64.023.488

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
As for y=e= story of y=e= silk stockings , I heare now there was no
such thing but an old story revived of y=e= last King 's time ,
HATTON,I,64.023.489

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but this later goes of so many , that it is not fitt to father it upon
any one in perticular , unlesse they know it better then I doe .
HATTON,I,64.023.490

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am , my Lord , Y=r= most faythfull servant , C. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,64.023.491

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Since I writt this at 11 a clock last night , my Lady Falmouth , w=th=
her daughter , and Jack Bartley , and Dick Niccolls , &c. , landed
heere HATTON,I,64.023.492

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and came to y=e= fort . HATTON,I,64.023.493

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You may easily imagine , my Lord , w=ht= that was to get um supper and
lodging at that time of <P_I,65> night ; HATTON,I,65.023.494

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and $'t $will {TEXT:'twill} be allmost as difficult to find it for um
for 3 or 4 days more , w=ch= they are like to stay before they can
order theyr convenience to London by land , HATTON,I,65.023.495

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for they will no more at sea . HATTON,I,65.023.496

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They come from Scarborow waters . HATTON,I,65.023.497

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The news I tell of the Duch admirall is all false ; HATTON,I,65.023.498

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_023:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so is y=t= of y=e= green stockings . HATTON,I,65.023.499

<Q_HAT_A_1671_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_024> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,67>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sep 26 , $1671 HATTON,I,67.024.500

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , It s so long since I heard from y=r= L=p= , that I am
affraide some letters I writt lately to your Lordship , that is since I
received any , have not come to you . HATTON,I,67.024.501

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I directed them to y=r= B=r= Charles . HATTON,I,67.024.502

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This $I $'ll {TEXT:Ile} send to M=r= Loving , who , for all I know ,
may be dead too . HATTON,I,67.024.503

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have letters from S=r= T. Lynch . HATTON,I,67.024.504

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is in Jamaica , and received there w=th= all y=e= wellcome y=e=
place can afford . HATTON,I,67.024.505

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But hee was not well , HATTON,I,67.024.506

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for y=e= gowte had seized him in a terrible manner .
HATTON,I,67.024.507

<P_I,68>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I can hope to give y=r= L=p= no divertion by my letters w=th= any news
from hence . HATTON,I,68.024.508

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You have no doubt heard the Duch have strook theyr flaggs all to the
King 's yach , and y=t= y=e= King has declared in councell he will
prorogue the parlim=t= till 23 of 8=ober= come 12 month ; that he has
damnd the new pattent for y=e= customes , upon theyr demanding an
abatement in case of a warr ; that S=r= William Thompson and M=r=
Garraway of y=e= House of Commons , M=r= Millington , and another I
have forgot , and , since , S=r= John Lowther of y=e= House too is put
in , are all Commissioners , and have a year each to manage the
customes for y=e= King . HATTON,I,68.024.509

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not too if you have heard of Harry Saville 's adventure at
Althrop . HATTON,I,68.024.510

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hee being there w=th= Will Russell , my Lady Northum. , Lady Ashley ,
and others , one night , when all were a bed , he comes up to Lady
Northum. chamber , HATTON,I,68.024.511

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and finding her doore open , goes in and up to her bed side in his
night gowne ; HATTON,I,68.024.512

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , when he is there , calls " Madam ! Madam ! " till he wakens her ,
HATTON,I,68.024.513

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and says that he came to acquaint her w=th= a passion he had long had ,
in the dark , w=ch= he durst not own to her in the light .
HATTON,I,68.024.514

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She , being mightily amazed to heare his voice , rung a bell by her bed
side ; upon w=ch= presently her women in the next roome began to stirr
. HATTON,I,68.024.515

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He begd her not to discover him , HATTON,I,68.024.516

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so went away . HATTON,I,68.024.517

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She imediately rises HATTON,I,68.024.518

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and goes to bed in another roome , to Lady Ashley , HATTON,I,68.024.519

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and acquaints her . HATTON,I,68.024.520

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They send for Will Russell HATTON,I,68.024.521

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tell him . HATTON,I,68.024.522

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He goes to Harry Savill , HATTON,I,68.024.523

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
advises him to quitt the house presently , or he would be <P_I,69>
affronted ; w=ch= he does to . HATTON,I,69.024.524

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
L=d= Sunderland and Will Russell follow him to London to fight him .
HATTON,I,69.024.525

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King has notice HATTON,I,69.024.526

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and prevents it . HATTON,I,69.024.527

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
H. S. , since , has w=th=drawn himself , ashamed for so ill a conduct ,
no body know whither ; HATTON,I,69.024.528

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
some say beyond sea . HATTON,I,69.024.529

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King is now at Euson , at my Lord Arlington 's .
HATTON,I,69.024.530

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At his returne thither I intend to wayte on him for some days , if my
wife be well , w=ch= she has not bine thesse 4 or 5 days , but slept
pretty well to night . HATTON,I,69.024.531

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I shall returne hither for a month or two , HATTON,I,69.024.532

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then am not resolved whether for London or Arely .
HATTON,I,69.024.533

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am , My Lord , Your most humble servant , C. L . HATTON,I,69.024.534

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They talk of my L=d= Sunderlands going embassador into Spaine .
HATTON,I,69.024.535

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Tho. Osborn is made Treasorer of the Navy , and S=r= Thomas
Lyttelton left out . HATTON,I,69.024.536

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare not of any thing else they do for him . HATTON,I,69.024.537

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_024:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My b=r= Nando goes a captain of a troope in S=r= Harry Jones regiment
of horse into France . HATTON,I,69.024.538

<Q_HAT_A_1671_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_025> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,73>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

{ED:1671.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My D=r= Lord , I am newly come to towne , where I shall be very glad to
receive y=r= commandes . HATTON,I,73.025.539

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The news heere is but very little ; HATTON,I,73.025.540

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
all talk of a warr in springe . HATTON,I,73.025.541

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am solliciting hard for mony to repaire my fort , w=ch= I am promised
. HATTON,I,73.025.542

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I get it , I shall be content to goe downe and see it layd out ,
HATTON,I,73.025.543

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
else I intend not to goe away more this winter . HATTON,I,73.025.544

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I dined yesterday w=th= my L=d= Bedford and that family at Lord
Newports , where wee had much of y=e= discourse concerning Lady
Thannets being poisoned , or rather that she had like to have bine so ;
HATTON,I,73.025.545

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell y=e= particulars , w=ch= I suppose
too y=r= L=p= has from better hands ; HATTON,I,73.025.546

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I perceive that my L=d= Thannet is not excused at all from having a
hand in it . HATTON,I,73.025.547

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I never heard the like how they talk of him . HATTON,I,73.025.548

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Capt. Herbert is going a captain in S=r= H. Jones troope for France ;
HATTON,I,73.025.549

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the Duke told mee his company shall be removed into England .
HATTON,I,73.025.550

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They say that the French will not trouble y=e= Spaniard , but fall in
upon y=e= Duch somewhere about the Rhine ; HATTON,I,73.025.551

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so the tripple alliance may continue . HATTON,I,73.025.552

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My L=d= Sunderland is hastening for Spaine . HATTON,I,73.025.553

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am in greate hast , HATTON,I,73.025.554

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I must tell you before I conclude y=t= my old Lady Peterborough is
dying , HATTON,I,73.025.555

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and my Lord Peterborough was w=th= much adoo perswaded to goe this
morning to take her blessing . HATTON,I,73.025.556

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
She has done pritty well all she could for L=d= Mordant .
HATTON,I,73.025.557

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:41?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:39?
LETTER:HATTON_025:E3:1671:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=r= L=ps= humble serv=t= , C. Lytt . HATTON,I,73.025.558

<Q_HAT_A_1672_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_026> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,78>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tuesday , Feb. 12th , $1671/2 . HATTON,I,78.026.559

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My deere Lord , I $have $n't {TEXT:hant} heard from you since Capt.
Izod came from you ; HATTON,I,78.026.560

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have writt twice by way of Hampton . HATTON,I,78.026.561

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The greate talk of Lambert 's being sent for hither , I beleeve ,
proceedes from nothing but that y=r= b=r= borrowed my L=d= Howard 's
coach <paren> as I heare </paren> for to meete M=rs= Lambert upon y=e=
roade , to bring her to towne ; HATTON,I,78.026.562

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I thinke hee and his wife went w=th= it to meete her .
HATTON,I,78.026.563

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This Mervin Tucket told mee at my Lord Windsor 's lodging , who is in
towne . HATTON,I,78.026.564

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The news is come that the Queene of Spaine has signed the rattifacation
of y=e= league , offensive and defensive , w=th= y=e= Duch .
HATTON,I,78.026.565

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= George Downing is in the Tower , for coming away in so much hast
and contrary to the King 's direct orders to him under his own hand .
HATTON,I,78.026.566

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
$It $'s {TEXT:It's} beleeved he was affraid the people would attempt
upon him . HATTON,I,78.026.567

<P_I,79>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke of Buck. , they say , and my Lord Ashley are fallen quite out
; HATTON,I,79.026.568

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and y=e= Duke is very fond growne of y=e= Treasurer ,
HATTON,I,79.026.569

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and says he shall be Treas. of England ; HATTON,I,79.026.570

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I beleeve , for all y=t= , he continues firme in his friendship to
the L=d= Arlington . HATTON,I,79.026.571

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My old Lady Moulgraive $is dead . HATTON,I,79.026.572

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Last night died Dr. Clerk y=e= phisitian . HATTON,I,79.026.573

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Thomas Ingram lyes dying , HATTON,I,79.026.574

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Bab May is to be Chancellor . HATTON,I,79.026.575

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I was to night to see Thom. Grey , HATTON,I,79.026.576

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but could not ; he was so ill . HATTON,I,79.026.577

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His disease a consumption and dropsy . HATTON,I,79.026.578

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Last night , one of S=r= John Lewis his heires was stollen from her
mother 's house in Lincoln 's Inne fields by I know not who ;
HATTON,I,79.026.579

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
she is sister to her my L=d= Huntingdon is to marry .
HATTON,I,79.026.580

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The mother was married but a little while agoe in her boudore to one of
S=r= Onslow 's sons of Surrey . HATTON,I,79.026.581

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not if you know that little Osborne is knighted and married to
Ned Vernon 's sister , and had w=th= her , w=ch= I feare was greate
part of it in y=e= banquiers hands . HATTON,I,79.026.582

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They are not yet raising y=e= Duke of $Monmouth $'s regiment , nor y=e=
commissions delivered out . HATTON,I,79.026.583

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard to day wee shall have two regiments raised at home , and that
Fitz-Gerrard is to command one . HATTON,I,79.026.584

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am mighty cold and in hast . HATTON,I,79.026.585

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_026:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your most obedient servant , C. L . HATTON,I,79.026.586

<Q_HAT_A_1672_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_027> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,80>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Feb. 22=th= , $1671/2 . HATTON,I,80.027.587

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I have received 2 letters from you this weeke , y=e= 1=st= of
Feb. 3=rd= , and y=e= later by a reiveller , of y=e= 12=th= , whom I
told I should be very readie to serve in w=ht= I could .
HATTON,I,80.027.588

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He came w=th= Dick Beavor . HATTON,I,80.027.589

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I read that part of y=r= L=ps= to his Royall H=gs= , wherein you
commanded mee to sattisfie him about y=r= companie , w=ch= I suppose
was sufficient . HATTON,I,80.027.590

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I allso told my L=d= Arlington about y=e= quarters w=ht= you writt .
HATTON,I,80.027.591

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yesterday came y=e= Spanish embass: from Flanders . HATTON,I,80.027.592

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He had private audience to day , HATTON,I,80.027.593

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , after that , y=e= K=g= and French embass: were alone above an
hower . HATTON,I,80.027.594

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
W=ht= resolutions are taken a little time will show ,
HATTON,I,80.027.595

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but most beleeve wee shall have warr ; HATTON,I,80.027.596

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and how y=e= matter will be ordred I know not , HATTON,I,80.027.597

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I suppose they that govern think soe as that the Spaniard and wee
shall still continue faire together however . HATTON,I,80.027.598

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The weather being broke and y=e= wind westerly our ships will come
quickly about , that lye at Portsm=th= and westward , and bring in S=r=
Ed: Spragg . HATTON,I,80.027.599

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had a letter lately of Nov. 29 from S=r= T. Lynch ; his wife brought
well to bed of a boy . HATTON,I,80.027.600

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This day S=r= Rob=t= Carr had y=e= seale given him of y=e= Duchy
HATTON,I,80.027.601

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and took his oathes . HATTON,I,80.027.602

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They talk much to-day of raising new forces , HATTON,I,80.027.603

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they say 2 regiments of foot and a troope of horse in every county .
HATTON,I,80.027.604

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King has of late forbore visiting my Lady $Cleveland ;
HATTON,I,80.027.605

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but some two days since was w=th= her againe , HATTON,I,80.027.606

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I suppose will continue to goe sometimes , though it may be not so
often . HATTON,I,80.027.607

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Capt. Izod dined w=th= mee to day , and my chaplin , M=r= Evans , who
Izod told y=r= L=p= was resolved to give a parsonage too when one fell
, w=ch= , if you have not greater ingagem=t= , in truth , my Lord , I
think he will well deserve , HATTON,I,80.027.608

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for hee is an honest sober man and a <P_I,81> good preacher .
HATTON,I,81.027.609

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He thinkes he shall goe to sea this summer in one of the greate ships .
HATTON,I,81.027.610

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The B=p= of Bath , D=r= Charleton , kept his consecration feast at y=e=
Cock , for w=ch= reason none of y=e= B=ps= would goe to it .
HATTON,I,81.027.611

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
A Tuesday night there was greate maskarading at my Lady Portland 's ,
my Lord Alesburye 's , and Lady Walgrave 's . HATTON,I,81.027.612

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am calld away in hast HATTON,I,81.027.613

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have no more to adde but that in good earnest y=r= ormers were
thought most excellent meate . HATTON,I,81.027.614

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My humblest services to my Lady &c . HATTON,I,81.027.615

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_027:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And am , my Lord , Your most humble servant , C. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,81.027.616

<Q_HAT_A_1672_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_028> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,86>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Landguard Fort , HATTON,I,86.028.617

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
1 June , $1672 . HATTON,I,86.028.618

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I am in so greate $haste just taking coach to give his R=ll=
Highnesse y=e= paru bien after his late danger , being <paren> as I
suppose by y=e= inclosed </paren> at Sole Bay , that I have only time
to put that up and to tell you , w=ch= will be y=e= best acc=t= you can
have <paren> I suppose </paren> , of that action , when I return from
thence . HATTON,I,86.028.619

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I may learne other perticulars , w=ch= I shall write y=r= Lords=p= ;
HATTON,I,86.028.620

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only this in the meane time . HATTON,I,86.028.621

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I believe ther is some reason to hope , w=ch= is y=e= best , my Lord
Sandwich may be a prisoner w=th= y=e= Duch , not being heard of in our
fleete ; because I have examined one y=t= was in y=e= James when she
was a fire , who does aver that he saw my Lord and S=r= Charles Herbert
, Capt. Haddock and L=t= Mayo , all leave y=e= ship and goe into my
Lord 's barge . HATTON,I,86.028.622

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My d=r= Lord , I am Y=r= most humble serv=t= , C. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,86.028.623

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Poore Thom. Bromly was in y=e= Royall James and all his company .
HATTON,I,86.028.624

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So was Capt. Bennet and his , in y=e= Henry . HATTON,I,86.028.625

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke has lost 4 captains of his regm=t= . HATTON,I,86.028.626

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_028:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
$It $'s {TEXT:It's} not impossible I may get Izod a company w=ch= I
would faine doe . HATTON,I,86.028.627

<Q_HAT_A_1672_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_029> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,95>

{ED:THE_SAME}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Landguard Fort , HATTON,I,95.029.628

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Aug. 26 , 1672 . HATTON,I,95.029.629

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My deere Lord , I am just come heere from y=e= buoy of y=e= Nore ,
where I left y=e= King and his Royall Highnesse w=th= y=e= whole fleet
, w=ch= were in no condition any longer to keepe the seas ,
HATTON,I,95.029.630

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they have bine so cruelly harassed , both men and ships , by the
tempestuous seasons they have had ever since they were abroad , many of
y=e= ships being quite disabled and the men allmost all soe sick , that
they have scarce in any ship enow well to weigh their anchors .
HATTON,I,95.029.631

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet , notw=th=standing , I left them in councell upon resolving the
fleete should out againe , and that very speedily , and that some
thousands of landmen should be put on board , w=th= designe to land
them somewhere upon the Duch ; a traine of 12 peeces , 3 morter peeces
, and theyr equipage being long since shipped in other vessells .
HATTON,I,95.029.632

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They talked of Scotch that are upon theyr march too for this expedition
, besides some out of Ireland , where , by the way , the new L=t= has
disbanded a greate many of y=e= troopes , and taken away the power and
courts of y=e= presidents . HATTON,I,95.029.633

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It was y=e= opinion of all y=e= sea officers I talked w=th= , that it
would be scarce practicable to get y=e= fleet out in such time as is
proposed ; HATTON,I,95.029.634

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I beleeve they will trye w=ht= s possible , the Prince being to be
Gen=ll= , and y=e= Duke of Buck: L=t= Gen=ll= ; HATTON,I,95.029.635

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they say that either Lockier <paren> who has a regiment of Scots in
this country of <P_I,96> men </paren> or Fitzgerald $is to be Major
Gen=ll= , and 4 troopes of the K=gs= regim=t= to goe w=th= them .
HATTON,I,96.029.636

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I was told I should have no part in the affaire ; HATTON,I,96.029.637

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
soe I left it , wishing them good successe . HATTON,I,96.029.638

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
By y=e= death of Capt. Cartwright my Ca: L=t= has his company , w=ch=
made $me thinke of y=r= kindnesse and charrecter of L=t= Izod ,
HATTON,I,96.029.639

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have got him to be my Capt. L=t= , w=ch= , though it be no greate
advantage for y=e= present , will be yet a remove from Portsm=th= ,
where he was wearie , and a feather in his cap and somew=th= neerer a
company . HATTON,I,96.029.640

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I never saw people soe intollerably wearie as they are all of being at
sea , not only land men and volonteeres , but the seamen themselves .
HATTON,I,96.029.641

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They spoke much of my Lord Peterborows going for y=e= Arch Duchesse ,
the Spaniards at length having complyed in the treatie to the K=gs=
sattisfaction . HATTON,I,96.029.642

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord Peterborow , while I was there , went away to fight w=th= M=r=
Felton , of the K=gs= bedchamber , upon a quarrell they had at sea , in
w=ch= my Lord gave him a cuffe o' th' eare ; HATTON,I,96.029.643

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the Duke sent after them , HATTON,I,96.029.644

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and they were prevented . HATTON,I,96.029.645

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was a fine youth w=th= the King , by the name of Don Carlos , who
the King ownes for his sonne by my Lady Greene , who has bine bred in
Flanders . HATTON,I,96.029.646

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They say he has a great deal of witt and is finely bred .
HATTON,I,96.029.647

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not heard from y=r= L=p= a greate while . HATTON,I,96.029.648

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I think I told you , in my last , my pritty girle died suddenly in her
inne , <P_I,97> as my wife was coming to mee , of a convulsion .
HATTON,I,97.029.649

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My wife is very bigg and hastening to London to lye in ;
HATTON,I,97.029.650

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I must not stirr hence till the fleet comes in for good and all .
HATTON,I,97.029.651

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My humblest services to all of y=e= good company . HATTON,I,97.029.652

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Old Lady Berksh=r= dead . HATTON,I,97.029.653

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=r= L=ps= most humble servant , C. Lyttelton . HATTON,I,97.029.654

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My sister Lyttelton has bine very ill HATTON,I,97.029.655

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is not yet , I feare , out of danger ; and my poore Harry not well
recovered yet . HATTON,I,97.029.656

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I should be glad to heare better news of y=r= L=ps= .
HATTON,I,97.029.657

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_029:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I found they are not well sattisfied w=th= y=e= P. of Aurange , because
he does not shew himself more complizant to our demands .
HATTON,I,97.029.658

<Q_HAT_A_1672_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_030> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,97>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<em> November , 1672 </em> HATTON,I,97.030.659

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My D=r= Lord , I writt to you a little before I came from my fort , and
twice since . HATTON,I,97.030.660

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have bine from thence 8 or 9 weekes , HATTON,I,97.030.661

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I have never had any letter from y=r= L=p= since , though I have
heard you are well by others . HATTON,I,97.030.662

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have orders to quitt my fort and to march to Rochester , where I
shall have , and in that countrey , all the Dukes regiment .
HATTON,I,97.030.663

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King allows mee , as has bine to y=e= former commanders there , a
weeke for a table . HATTON,I,97.030.664

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At present , till I releeve him , S=r= Jonathan Atkins is there .
HATTON,I,97.030.665

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Kings whole regim=t= comes up to towne . HATTON,I,97.030.666

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=e= Princes Dragons are gone into Northamp=t= and Warwicksh=r= ;
HATTON,I,97.030.667

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Duke <P_I,98> of Bukinghams are from Branford to Portsm=th= .
HATTON,I,98.030.668

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=e= Scots are marcht to Winchester and those parts ; Irish , commanded
by my L=d= Pore in Essex ; FitzGerrauds in Suffolk ; S=r= Walter Vane
's in y=e= North . HATTON,I,98.030.669

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There are 8 companies of the Duke of Monm=ths= regiment in France
reduced , HATTON,I,98.030.670

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wee are sending 9 companies out of y=e= regim=ts= heere to be
joyned to y=e= Dukes regiment in France , and horse out of y=e= Guards
, w=ch= Blanfort is to command . HATTON,I,98.030.671

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The news this morning was that y=e= Germans are passd the Rhyne by
force , and that there has bine a greate many of y=e= best quality lost
on both sides ; that Liege has declared and rendred to y=e=
Imperiallists , and that $it $'s {TEXT:it's} expected Collogne should
doe soe too . HATTON,I,98.030.672

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Prince of Aurange marcht to joine w=th= the Germans ;
HATTON,I,98.030.673

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and y=e= Spaniard send them all the force they can too .
HATTON,I,98.030.674

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
$It $'s {TEXT:It's} thought wee shall breake w=th= the Span. who joyne
w=th= y=e= Duch and are sending a squadron of ships into y=e= W. Indies
, of w=ch= wee are dispatching a ketch to give advice to our
settlements there . HATTON,I,98.030.675

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is a pleasant report that the French King is designing to unite
all his Xtian subjects in one profession of religion , and has , in
order to it , sent to all y=e= Prottestant ministers he intends to
abolish the worship of images , the doctrine of purgatory , that y=e=
divine worship shall be all in the vulgar tongue , and y=e= Sacrament
of the Eucharist administred in both kinds ; that there are 32 b=ps= of
y=e= French Church w=ch= have consented to this alteration , and , if
the Pope doe not agree to it , that they will choose a patriarch to
preside in that Church . HATTON,I,98.030.676

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is written from the Professor of Ledein to a French minister heere
who brought the letter to S=r= Joseph Williamson , w=ch= he told him :
" Je le croy comme une article de ma foy . " HATTON,I,98.030.677

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But there is none of this in any other letters from France ,
HATTON,I,98.030.678

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so $it $'s {TEXT:it's} understood but a raillery . HATTON,I,98.030.679

<P_I,99>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King makes y=e= banquiers beleeve that $hee $'ll {TEXT:heele} keepe
his word w=th= them , and that y=e= checquer shall be open at X=t=masse
; w=ch= I pray God he be able to doe . HATTON,I,99.030.680

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had lately an offer to be L=t= Governor of Portsm=th= , but w=th= a
condition to quit my regim=t= , w=ch= therefore I desired to be excused
in ; HATTON,I,99.030.681

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , since , I have heard this was a devise to grattifie my L=d=
Molgraves adventures to sea by giving him y=e= regim=t= .
HATTON,I,99.030.682

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Since , they have thought on George Leg to be Governor of Portsm=th= ,
HATTON,I,99.030.683

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he will have it . HATTON,I,99.030.684

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King saw the Scots regim=t= exercise the French way ,
HATTON,I,99.030.685

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and it pleases soe well that y=e= King says he likes it far better then
ours , w=ch= the Prince , Coll. Russell , and all the English officers
allmost doe not , HATTON,I,99.030.686

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and yet I know not if wee shall not be ordred to change .
HATTON,I,99.030.687

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am one of y=e= opinion it will be for y=e= worse .
HATTON,I,99.030.688

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I met y=r= brother two or 3 days since , HATTON,I,99.030.689

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and he told mee y=r= L=p= will be heere at spring , w=ch= I shall be
very glad of ; HATTON,I,99.030.690

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I doubt if your wives will permitt you . HATTON,I,99.030.691

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I writt to y=r= L=p= to give mee a doe , HATTON,I,99.030.692

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I told you I had sent y=r= brother 4=li= of good chocolate and 6
rollittos of excellent tobacco . HATTON,I,99.030.693

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare you take both . HATTON,I,99.030.694

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My L=d= Sandwich has given mee a very fine saphire ring that I told you
was found in his fathers pocket . HATTON,I,99.030.695

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He told mee hee d right to you and send mee the letter ;
HATTON,I,99.030.696

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but hee has not yet . HATTON,I,99.030.697

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I phancy the Dakes match w=th= y=e= Archduchesse is a little dulld , my
thinkes . HATTON,I,99.030.698

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They speake not of it soe briskly ; HATTON,I,99.030.699

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I heare nothing of late of my L=d= Peterboroughs going .
HATTON,I,99.030.700

<P_I,100>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My wife is brought to bed of a girle 3 days since ,
HATTON,I,100.030.701

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
had ill labour , HATTON,I,100.030.702

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is very ill since . HATTON,I,100.030.703

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sure I told you how my L=d= Fanshaw was disapointed of his desire to
goe to Constantinople , having long pretended to it ,
HATTON,I,100.030.704

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , as I heare he says , upon some promisse he sh=d= have it when
S=r= Dan. Hervey should be recalled ; HATTON,I,100.030.705

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I suppose you have heard too that S=r= Dan. is dead .
HATTON,I,100.030.706

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord Winchelsea pretended to it againe too ; HATTON,I,100.030.707

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but both failed , HATTON,I,100.030.708

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for S=r= John Finch y=e= Attorney 's b=r= has it ; HATTON,I,100.030.709

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and now my L=d= Winchelsea w=d= faine goe to Jamaica ,
HATTON,I,100.030.710

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I doubt not but y=e= King likes soe well of S=r= T. $Lynch that he
will not thinke yet of sending another . HATTON,I,100.030.711

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am , My Lord , Your most faithfull and humble servant , C. L.
HATTON,I,100.030.712

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I had allmost forgot to tell y=r= Lordsh=p= that I rec=d= a letter from
y=r= lawyer and 2 writings to seale , HATTON,I,100.030.713

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I think there will be more ab=t= Hatton Garden ; w=ch= I have done
. HATTON,I,100.030.714

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They expect any day to heare the French and German armyes are ingaged ,
HATTON,I,100.030.715

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I think there came some news of them to y=t= purposse to night ,
w=ch= being not told I suspect is none of y=e= best .
HATTON,I,100.030.716

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King had a good deale of y=e= French money lately , of w=ch= the
Treasurer my L=d= Clifford wholly disposes , as indeed of all ,
HATTON,I,100.030.717

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:42?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_030:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he makes the lists w=ht= mony shall be payd every Saturday himself
. HATTON,I,100.030.718

<Q_HAT_A_1672_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_031> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,101>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No. 19 , $1672 . HATTON,I,101.031.719

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} Wee have lately had a very great removall of an
eminent person , y=e= L=d= Keeper . HATTON,I,101.031.720

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Saterday night , about eight of y=e= clocke , M=r= Secretary
Coventry went to Essex House w=th= a warrant for y=e= seales .
HATTON,I,101.031.721

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Keeper was very much surprised at it , HATTON,I,101.031.722

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and offered to deliver y=e= seales w=th= y=e= purse .
HATTON,I,101.031.723

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Secretary said he had noe order but for y=e= seales ,
HATTON,I,101.031.724

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but would know y=e= King 's further pleasure concerning y=e= purse ;
HATTON,I,101.031.725

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , after he had delivered y=e= seales to his Ma=ty= , he returned
againe to y=e= late L=d= Keeper HATTON,I,101.031.726

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told him His Ma=ty= wou'd speake w=th= him y=e= next morning at
Whitehall , by eight of y=e= clocke , and y=t= he must bring then y=e=
purse w=th= him ; w=ch= he did . HATTON,I,101.031.727

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And y=e= King told him y=t= , in consideration of his great
indisposition of body , he had thought fit to free him from y=t=
troublesome imployment ; HATTON,I,101.031.728

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , in consideration of his faithfull service , he would settle upon
him a pension of per annum , w=ch= shoud be well payd him ;
HATTON,I,101.031.729

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , presently after , His Ma=ty= said to my L=d= Shaftsbury : " My
L=d= Chancellor , I deliver you y=e= seales , " who presently came and
seated himself in y=e= chappell , next y=e= Archb=p= of Canterbury ,
and y=e= next morning went to Westminster Hall , attended by all y=e=
great officers at Whitehall , and wase ther sworne by y=e= Duke of
Lauderdale and Ormond . HATTON,I,101.031.730

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All personns were very much supprized at y=e= suddainness of this great
alteration , y=e= resolution therof , it is said , having only been
taken that very afternoon , before M=r= Secretary went for y=e= seales
. HATTON,I,101.031.731

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Alderman Backwall hath been sued by severall of his creditors , and
judgments granted against him . HATTON,I,101.031.732

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He moved y=e= late L=d= Keeper , upon pretence y=t= he had lent all
y=e= mony to y=e= King , whose <P_I,102> Exchequer wase now shut up ,
to grant him an injunction to stop y=e= proceeding of all his creditors
, HATTON,I,102.031.733

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for denying this it is generally reported y=e= seales were taken
away . HATTON,I,102.031.734

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But this is but guess , and y=t= by y=e= most ignorant .
HATTON,I,102.031.735

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here is a talke of severall other new officers , of w=ch= I gave you an
account yesterday by y=e= way of France . HATTON,I,102.031.736

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall not now further trouble you . HATTON,I,102.031.737

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am , Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother and humble servant , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,102.031.738

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This morning dyed y=e= B=p= of Chester ; HATTON,I,102.031.739

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is reported y=t= y=e= L=d= Hallifax maryed M=r= Will. Peirepoint
daughter . HATTON,I,102.031.740

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mine and my wife 's duty and service where due . HATTON,I,102.031.741

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:40?
LETTER:HATTON_031:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= John Duncomb is made Chancellor of y=e= Exchequer .
HATTON,I,102.031.742

<Q_HAT_A_1673_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_032> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,103>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , HATTON,I,103.032.743

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Jan. 6th , $1672/3 . HATTON,I,103.032.744

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I was at Rochester when I received y=r= Ldps. of Jan. 1=st= ,
in an enclozed from S=r= William Scrugs , w=th= whom y=r= b=r= was at
his house in Essex , w=ch= brought mee the dire account of y=r= Lps.
most lamented losses ; HATTON,I,103.032.745

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and , because his letter <paren> for y=r= brother was in y=t= sorrow
and trouble he could not write himself </paren> did seeme to require my
advice and service to him on this ocasion , I imediately came away
HATTON,I,103.032.746

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and was heer that night , HATTON,I,103.032.747

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and this morning I waited on y=r= b=r= to my L=d= Arlington , and after
, to the King ; HATTON,I,103.032.748

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and all this day allmost wee have spent together in takeing order about
mourning and other matters necessary for the bringing my Ladyes to
towne and theyr interrment , w=ch= I hope will be to y=r= L=ps= likeing
. HATTON,I,103.032.749

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I w=d= have waited on him , truly , to Portsm=th= , but that there is
an inevitable necessity <P_I,104> incumbent on mee to hasten back to
Rochester , it happening soe that there is not one captain upon y=e=
place , and that I have at this time more then an ordinary observation
how I behave myself , w=ch= it will be fitter another time to
entertaine you w=th= ; HATTON,I,104.032.750

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for at present indeed I ought only to tell you how much all the world
doth accompany y=r= L=p= in the tenderest resentments you have in y=e=
ocasions of y=r= sorrow , and yet w=th= all doe congrattulate and allay
those troubles by the strange , and allmost miraculous , deliverance of
y=r= L=ps= own person , y=r= children and sisters , w=ch= I hope y=r=
L=p= will take that comfort in as not to neglect y=e= care of them by
abandoning y=r= self to melancholy and greife , w=ch= , you know , too
much of will hurt y=e= living and is of no use to the dead .
HATTON,I,104.032.751

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I need not preach to one soe prudent and constant as you are ,
HATTON,I,104.032.752

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:43?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_032:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore I will adde no more then that I wish , w=th= my soule , I
were at liberty to come to you or to doe any thing in y=e= world to
divert and serve you , or that your L=p= could come to mee to Rochester
, where I will doe my uttmost to contribute to both , being w=th=
extremest passion , My Lord , Y=r= most faithfull servant , C.
Lyttelton . HATTON,I,104.032.753

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_033> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,108>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
June 26 , $1673 . HATTON,I,108.033.754

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} S=r= Thomas Osborn is created L=d= Viscount Osborne
, of Dunblaine in Scotland , HATTON,I,108.033.755

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wase this day sworne in y=e= Exchequer chamber L=d= Treasurer of
England . HATTON,I,108.033.756

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know you will be desirous y=e= most expeditious way to be informed
thereof , y=t= you may congratulate him and acknowledge his late
favours to you ; HATTON,I,108.033.757

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hath expressed himself very obligingly to you in y=e= late
businesse . HATTON,I,108.033.758

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is s=d= my L=d= Clifford will retire himself into y=e= country .
HATTON,I,108.033.759

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told you in my last his R. H. had delivered up to his Ma=ty= all his
commissions ; HATTON,I,108.033.760

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , at y=e= same time , acquainted you who were nominated
commissioners of y=e= Admiralty . HATTON,I,108.033.761

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Fryday last , Maestricht wase surrendred upon articles to y=e= King of
France ; HATTON,I,108.033.762

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
foot and horse marched out of y=e= towne , June y=e= 24=th= , stilo
novo . HATTON,I,108.033.763

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= Duke of Monmouth w=th= prodigious courage and great conduct
possessed himself of a half moon , after y=t= y=e= French had been
twice beaten of w=th= y=e= loss <P_I,109> of men and officers .
HATTON,I,109.033.764

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Henry Jones was killed going on as a volunteer w=th= y=e= Duke ,
his regiment not being there , w=ch= is since given to y=e= Duke of
Monmouth , and his troope of horse here in England to Capt. $Ferdinando
Littleton , who is alsoe made Lieut. Coll. to y=e= D. of Monmouth reg.
of horse . HATTON,I,109.033.765

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After y=e= French had possessed themselves of y=e= aforesaid half moone
, from their batteries they made a large breach in y=e= wall of y=e=
town ; whereupon the citizens began to mutiny , HATTON,I,109.033.766

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= Fryday following , y=e= French designing a generall assault ,
y=e= burghers forced their governor to send out , about six in y=e=
morning , to parley , HATTON,I,109.033.767

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and by eleven of y=e= clocke y=e= capitulation wase signed ,
HATTON,I,109.033.768

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , about 1 , y=e= Marquis of Louvoy entred y=e= town .
HATTON,I,109.033.769

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= garrison marched out y=e= next day w=th= bag and baggage , drums
beating , colours flying , match lighted , bullet in y=e= mouth &c. ,
w=th= peices of canon and two mortar peices . HATTON,I,109.033.770

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The French King hath confirmed y=e= priviledges of y=e= town ,
HATTON,I,109.033.771

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is s=d= Mons=r= D'Estrades will be made governor .
HATTON,I,109.033.772

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= garison marched towards Breda , HATTON,I,109.033.773

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is s=d= y=e= French King is marched either-2 towards y=e= same
place or Bois le Duc . HATTON,I,109.033.774

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Certainly the losse of soe strong a place , making resistance and yet
taken in 11 dayes , must strike a great consternation in y=e= Dutch who
are very strong att sea and , it is to be feared , will beate us ;
HATTON,I,109.033.775

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we want seamen , HATTON,I,109.033.776

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and are forced to take new raised landmen . HATTON,I,109.033.777

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Schomberg came to town last Monday ; HATTON,I,109.033.778

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is s=d= he will settle here and be made an English peere and one of
y=e= Lieut. Gen. of y=e= army encamped at Blacke heath .
HATTON,I,109.033.779

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Who shall be Gen. is uncertain . HATTON,I,109.033.780

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some say D. Munmouth , HATTON,I,109.033.781

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but most thinke they will be disbanded ; HATTON,I,109.033.782

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if not , S=r= Walter Vane , it is said , will be Major Gen. ,
HATTON,I,109.033.783

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=t= is uncertain , as is y=e= day of generall rendevous .
HATTON,I,109.033.784

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther are at present but six reg. encamped ; L=d= Northamptons , L=d=
Mulgrave , L=d= Worcester , L=d= Vaughan , L=d= Carlisle $and Albemarle
. HATTON,I,109.033.785

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But L=d= <P_I,110> Ogle 's , L=d= Peterborough 's , and S=r= Water Vane
's are dayly expected . HATTON,I,110.033.786

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The match w=th= y=e= Dutchess of Insprucke is quite broken of .
HATTON,I,110.033.787

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is s=d= y=e= Emperour will marry her , and y=t= my L=d= Peterborough
is gone for Cologne to propose a match w=th= a daughter of y=e= Duke of
Newburke . HATTON,I,110.033.788

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He proposes this to delay coming to England , thereby to delay takeing
sacrament . HATTON,I,110.033.789

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= Duke has lost his esteem . HATTON,I,110.033.790

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God grant life to y=e= King . HATTON,I,110.033.791

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Our feares are great . HATTON,I,110.033.792

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We are all divided and in great confusion . HATTON,I,110.033.793

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Wilobby is dead in Barbadoes . HATTON,I,110.033.794

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Who shall succeed him is not known . HATTON,I,110.033.795

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Arlington had a shot in y=e= thigh before Maestrict ;
HATTON,I,110.033.796

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it wase only a flesh wound , HATTON,I,110.033.797

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is pretty well , as is Lieut. Tufton . HATTON,I,110.033.798

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My sisters and neices are very well , HATTON,I,110.033.799

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe $is my Lady Thanet , who hath lately been indisposed .
HATTON,I,110.033.800

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_033:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am , Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,110.033.801

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_034> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,110>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July 8 , $1673 . HATTON,I,110.034.802

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} Y=e= Duke of Monmouth is coming for England to
command us , HATTON,I,110.034.803

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
some say , y=e= army at Blackheath , though others say y=e= Prince
shall , and y=t= y=e= Duke of Yorke shall be generalissimo .
HATTON,I,110.034.804

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But that is very doubtfull ; HATTON,I,110.034.805

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= truth is , it is very uncertaine whither those forces will not
be speedily disbanded . HATTON,I,110.034.806

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mons=r= Schombergh is returning backe . HATTON,I,110.034.807

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some say he refuses to serve under y=e= Duke of Buccs , who , <P_I,111>
he saith , hath not been trained up in military affaires ,
HATTON,I,111.034.808

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore he will not be in a subordinate command to him .
HATTON,I,111.034.809

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have sent you y=e= Articles of War lately published ,
HATTON,I,111.034.810

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but how they will be executed I know not . HATTON,I,111.034.811

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Our parliament men and lawyers doe not care to heare of martiall law ;
HATTON,I,111.034.812

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , without that , I doe not see how an army can be governed .
HATTON,I,111.034.813

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Blackheath ther hath been severall mutinies . HATTON,I,111.034.814

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye mutineers are sent to y=e= Tower . HATTON,I,111.034.815

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The souldiers in very considerable numbers dayly run from their colours
. HATTON,I,111.034.816

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= judges have been consulted HATTON,I,111.034.817

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have declared y=t= , by y=e= law of y=e= land , neither y=e=
mutineers nor y=e= runawayes can loose their lives HATTON,I,111.034.818

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<paren> and yet they are horriblely scandalised at the name of martiall
law </paren> ; HATTON,I,111.034.819

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , if some are not hanged to deter others , you may imagine how y=e=
army is like to be kept up . HATTON,I,111.034.820

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wee have had great alterations in our great officers at home ,
HATTON,I,111.034.821

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and more are dayly expected . HATTON,I,111.034.822

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said y=e= L=d= Arlington will buy out y=e= L=d= S=t= Albans , and
be made L=d= Chamberlaine , and y=t= S=r= Joseph Williamson shall
succeed as Secretary of State . HATTON,I,111.034.823

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Others say S=r= Robert Car , HATTON,I,111.034.824

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and some speake of Sidney Godolphin , formerly <P_I,112> page to y=e=
King . HATTON,I,112.034.825

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This will scarce seeme credible to you , I am confident , considering
how well my L=d= Arlington at this time stands in y=e= Kings favour ,
and that y=t= this shou'd be done at his not only choice but suit .
HATTON,I,112.034.826

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_034:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,112.034.827

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FO_WSCROGGS> <L_HATTON_035> <A_WILLIAM_SCROGGS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1623?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,112>

{ED:SIR_WILLIAM_SCROGGS.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Weald Hall , HATTON,I,112.035.828

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
July y=e= 22=d= , $1673 . HATTON,I,112.035.829

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lord , I am not quite so lazy nor halfe so ill naturd as , when I
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} come <paren> as I would </paren> , not to send
. HATTON,I,112.035.830

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I choose the rather to write when I have nether business nor newes
, that you may see $'t $is {TEXT:tis} nether necessity nor the itch of
imparting state affaires provokes this , but a naturall felicity I take
of writing to y=r= Lordship , with <paren> I confess </paren> y=e=
addition of rayling at y=r= brother for nether comming to Wealdhall nor
letting his wife nor y=r= sisters come before he went .
HATTON,I,112.035.831

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I know y=e= excuse is important business , w=ch= he never wants ;
HATTON,I,112.035.832

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and yet , for all that , he is but a kind of lawyer y=t= seemes farr
busier then he is . HATTON,I,112.035.833

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
There is , my L=rd= , in all y=r= family such a smoothness of kindness
like a dead calme , not a wrinkle to be seene ; HATTON,I,112.035.834

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but it carryes you nowhether . HATTON,I,112.035.835

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I could wish , if it were possible , y=r= Lordships example could
change that way in 'em ; HATTON,I,112.035.836

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I suppose that tyme and y=e= nature of y=t= place has wrought of
much of that sweetness w=ch= , as in wine , leaves it better to y=e=
tast and stomack . HATTON,I,112.035.837

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And now you talke of wine , well remembered ! HATTON,I,112.035.838

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the last $hogshead $'s {TEXT:hogshead's} abroach , HATTON,I,112.035.839

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and without a sudden supply there is no living for mee at Weald Hall .
HATTON,I,112.035.840

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The woemen drink in fear allready , HATTON,I,112.035.841

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and you know all theire passions are violent . HATTON,I,112.035.842

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$'T $is {TEXT:Tis} not a small matter will satisfy any ones desire ,
HATTON,I,112.035.843

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and <P_I,113> heere are a greate many to be satisfyed , besides y=r=
sisters and M=r= Hattons lady , famous at 2 in y=e= morning .
HATTON,I,113.035.844

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=rd= , by my last I wrott how you might send it , viz. to have it
landed at Rainham , w=ch= Arthur knowes , HATTON,I,113.035.845

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and from thence $I $'ll {TEXT:Ile} send for it . HATTON,I,113.035.846

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thinke not of any other stores at Guernsey but this ,
HATTON,I,113.035.847

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and

let as much of it be clarrett , and as strong as you please , and more
then ever you imagined . HATTON,I,113.035.849

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I lately received a letter from my Lady Colster out of France .
HATTON,I,113.035.850

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Her enquiryes are much after y=r= Lordship with greate seeming kindness
, HATTON,I,113.035.851

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I suppose y=t= is y=e= way of France and good breeding , w=ch= is
all is meant ; HATTON,I,113.035.852

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I know y=r= L=rd=ship can be even w=th= her . HATTON,I,113.035.853

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
M=r= Hatton can give you an account how she used mee when she went away
; HATTON,I,113.035.854

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yet I know $hee $'ll {TEXT:heele} mince y=e= matter , because it was
not very much unlike himselfe . HATTON,I,113.035.855

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
However , I , like an easy English foole , have wrott to her now ,
HATTON,I,113.035.856

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and in truth upon y=e= matter have desired her pardon for y=e=
unkindness she has done mee . HATTON,I,113.035.857

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Such is the catiffe nature of him that should be a vassall to none but
y=r= L=rd=ship . W. S . HATTON,I,113.035.858

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_035:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My love to Arthur . HATTON,I,113.035.859

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_036> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,113>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$August 1673 . HATTON,I,113.036.860

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} I shall tell you what publicke news wee here , and
first what is said of y=e= late engagement , w=ch= , by y=e= rashness
of S=r= Edward Spragg , and cowardise of y=e= French , had like to have
proved fatal <P_I,114> to y=e= English . HATTON,I,114.036.861

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The French , if they speake truth , must either excuse their cowardise
by their treachery or their treachery by their cowardise .
HATTON,I,114.036.862

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
You may see by y=e= enclosed what a faire story they make for
themselves , HATTON,I,114.036.863

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I beleeve you will smile at their policy to forbeare fighting that
they might secure y=e= weather gage against y=e= next day .
HATTON,I,114.036.864

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said y=e= French embassador is displeased . HATTON,I,114.036.865

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= narative is published in distinct relations from each squadron .
HATTON,I,114.036.866

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , to give y=e= more credit to what y=e= French say for themselves ,
he wou'd have had it inserted in one intire narrative of y=e= whole
engagement . HATTON,I,114.036.867

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some speake as if y=e= French doe accuse y=e= Prince , as well as he
them ; HATTON,I,114.036.868

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it is as impossible to make any Englishman suspect y=e= Prince his
courage , as to persuade him y=e= French have any at sea .
HATTON,I,114.036.869

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Since y=e= engagement y=e= Dutch are higher then ever .
HATTON,I,114.036.870

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They say they will be content to allow y=e= English y=e= flagge in y=e=
narrow sea . HATTON,I,114.036.871

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for fishing in our seas , they have as good a right to it as wee ,
HATTON,I,114.036.872

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=t= they know better to dispose of their money then to give it
away . HATTON,I,114.036.873

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But ther is news from Kinsale y=t= three of their East India shipps are
brought in thither richly laden , taken by those men of war who retooke
S=t= Helena . HATTON,I,114.036.874

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is hoped this may humble y=e= Dutch . HATTON,I,114.036.875

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This last engagement y=e= French behaved themselves so cowardly y=t= ,
27 Dutch men of war going to engage them , they waved them , so y=t=
y=e= Dutch , not fearing any oposition from them , deserted them and
fell upon y=e= Prince . HATTON,I,114.036.876

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Only Mons=r= Martell put himself into y=e= Prince his squadron
HATTON,I,114.036.877

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and behaved himself very gallantly , to y=e= shame of y=e= rest of his
countreymen . HATTON,I,114.036.878

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Edward Spragge is much lamented , HATTON,I,114.036.879

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and would have been more had he not clashed w=th= y=e= Prince .
HATTON,I,114.036.880

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wase a very brave commander , and very unfortunately lost .
HATTON,I,114.036.881

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
An accidentall shot sunke y=e= boate he wase in . HATTON,I,114.036.882

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His men fastened him to a planke , HATTON,I,114.036.883

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
went to fetch another boate , HATTON,I,114.036.884

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and found him , when they returned , halfe <P_I,115> above water , but
dead , yet grasping y=e= planke very hard . HATTON,I,115.036.885

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is beleeved y=e= waves , beating against y=e= planke , destroyed
$him being a very weighty and full-bodyed man . HATTON,I,115.036.886

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sure you will be glad S=r= Charles Littleton wase upon soe
honorable an account sent out of danger . HATTON,I,115.036.887

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The match w=th= y=e= Duke of Modena 's sister is broke of , as it is
said . HATTON,I,115.036.888

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Duke Lautherdale is come to town , and in better favour then {in}_P
wase reported . HATTON,I,115.036.889

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Treasurer is created Viscount Latimer , and recovered of his
late sickness . HATTON,I,115.036.890

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Robert Paston , L=d= Viscount Yarmouth , his son maryed y=e= Lady
Chanon 's daughter , w=ch= , together w=th= my L=d= Treasurer 's
interest , who is his great friend , advanced him to this dignity .
HATTON,I,115.036.891

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_036:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am , Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,115.036.892

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FO_WSCROGGS> <L_HATTON_037> <A_WILLIAM_SCROGGS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1623?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,115>

{ED:SIR_WILLIAM_SCROGGS.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sept=br= y=e= 12=th= , $1673 . HATTON,I,115.037.893

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lord , The worst name I can call you by ; HATTON,I,115.037.894

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for when you were a comoner and an honest man you had plaine thoughts ,
HATTON,I,115.037.895

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and beleeved that promisses ought to be performed , and that he y=t=
sed : " $I $'ll {TEXT:Ile} send you a hogshead " had but meanly kept
his word in sending but two . HATTON,I,115.037.896

<P_I,116>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But now you , like them y=t= pretend so much to religion y=t= they are
above ordinances , thinke it dishonourable to y=r= title to keepe y=r=
word , and y=t= by y=r= dignity you must falsifie , lest you become
like that low sort of people y=t= keepe faith . HATTON,I,116.037.897

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
S=r= , I am much wrongd by you in preventing mee from buying of wine at
6=l= a hogshead y=t= must now cost mee , depending very foolishly on
one y=t= I ought to have knowne before . HATTON,I,116.037.898

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I know now y=tt= pyrates and y=e= daingers of seas must be y=e= excuse
; HATTON,I,116.037.899

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but why wine could not as safely come as cidyer I understand not ,
unless there be articles for apples but not for grapes , or y=t= y=e=
vigour of one would make it safe , but y=e= cowardize of wine would
turne it into vinegar . HATTON,I,116.037.900

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=rd= , pray know y=t= I am <paren> though not y=e= best performer
</paren> yet y=e= greatest exacter of promises y=t= will never be
answered by reason , but the thing itselfe ; and thinke y=t= reasonable
to be made into a law y=t= w=t=soever is promisd ought to be performed
, whether it can or no ; HATTON,I,116.037.901

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for though it were sometymes impossible , yet y=t= were better to
condemne then suffer the excuses y=t= will ever be made by $y=r=
L=rd=ship . HATTON,I,116.037.902

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I can have no better reason for establishing impossibilityes by law
then my Lord Hatton , who otherwise will make all things impossible .
HATTON,I,116.037.903

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I could willingly raile on , HATTON,I,116.037.904

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but can write no more then W. S . HATTON,I,116.037.905

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
If hogsheads were as cheape as warrants I had received them .
HATTON,I,116.037.906

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my Lady my reall service ; HATTON,I,116.037.907

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
to Saunterer , my love , like hers . HATTON,I,116.037.908

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_037:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
In greate hast to drinke y=r= L=r=sp 's health . HATTON,I,116.037.909

<Q_HAT_A_1673_FO_WSCROGGS> <L_HATTON_038> <A_WILLIAM_SCROGGS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1623?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,117>

{ED:THE_SAME}

{ED:1673.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lord , You say very true , HATTON,I,117.038.910

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
wine is answerd with nothing but wine . HATTON,I,117.038.911

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
If anything or anybody else could have donne it otherwise , it must
have bin y=r= L=rd=ship , in whom there is much art ,
HATTON,I,117.038.912

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but in wine is truth . HATTON,I,117.038.913

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Y=r= present was spoild before y=r= brother receivd it .
HATTON,I,117.038.914

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We broke ope y=e= coffin at his howse , wherein we found only the
furniture of a coffine , corruption . HATTON,I,117.038.915

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Those lympitts y=t= wer never seene in England lack wine to make 'em
tast ; HATTON,I,117.038.916

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I will take it y=t= y=r= L=rd=ship keeps y=r= word , that you send
w=t= was yet never seene in England , when you send y=e= next
hoggsheads . HATTON,I,117.038.917

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=rd= , you must not take it ill if I write of nothing but wine ,
HATTON,I,117.038.918

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for there is nothing I want more , nor of w=ch= I can better write , or
more willingly - with this difference only , that wine wrott for has
not halfe y=t= elegancy as wine thankt for . HATTON,I,117.038.919

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am glad to hear y=r= L=rd=ship is like to come over , because then
you will bring wine infallibly ; HATTON,I,117.038.920

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for you know you must shew y=r= face and see Weald Hall .
HATTON,I,117.038.921

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
In short , I rely upon you in that matter HATTON,I,117.038.922

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and let Christmas take its fortune accordingly . HATTON,I,117.038.923

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Having vented my passion of love to wine , my next good subject is of
railing ag't woemen , and in y=e= first place at y=r= sisters , who ,
by y=e= conduct of y=r= brother and his lady , haunt my chamber oftener
then a pauper and with much greater trouble , HATTON,I,117.038.924

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for they only $do not give , HATTON,I,117.038.925

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but these plunder what others give . HATTON,I,117.038.926

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I want y=r= company to redress y=t= too . HATTON,I,117.038.927

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$Pray $thee {TEXT:Prethee} , my deare L=rd= , make hast ,
HATTON,I,117.038.928

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_SCROGGS:MALE:KIN:1623?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:41?
LETTER:HATTON_038:E3:1673:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and $y=t= $'s {TEXT:y=t=s} an answer to the complement you gave him
that is to much a friend to neede one , because I am all love and all
yrs . W. S . HATTON,I,117.038.929

<Q_HAT_A_1676_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_039> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,122>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Apr. 25 , $1676 . HATTON,I,122.039.930

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} Last fryday night , y=e= King told S=r= John Duncomb
y=t= he must resigne his place . HATTON,I,122.039.931

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He desired to know for what crime . HATTON,I,122.039.932

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= King told him y=t= he did beleeve him to be a very honest
gentleman , but y=t= he did obstruct his affaires by interfaring w=th=
y=e= Treasurer , and y=t= he wou'd not have his Treasurer be uneasy .
HATTON,I,122.039.933

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= John Ernly is Chancelour of y=e= Exchequer , HATTON,I,122.039.934

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and some of my L=d= Treasurer 's creatures , as S=r= Francis Lawly and
S=r= Richard Wiseman , put for S=r= John Ernley $'s place , as
commissioner of y=e= Navy . HATTON,I,122.039.935

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But my L=d= Treasurer told them y=t= it wase by y=e= Duke of Yorke 's
meanes y=t= Duncomb wase put out , and that therfore he wase obliged
not to interpose w=th= y=e= Duke for any person to succeede S=r= J=n=
Ernley , and y=t= y=e= Duke hath put in Narbrough , a person very
deserving and qualifyed for y=t= place . HATTON,I,122.039.936

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Idle yeople in y=e= coffe houses say S=r= J=n= Ernley gave money ;
HATTON,I,122.039.937

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
others say y=t= he pay'd none $downe , but engages to make a match
w=th= one of my L=d= $'s daughters w=th= y=e= Duke of Somerset , and to
contribute towards her portion . HATTON,I,122.039.938

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now all y=e= talke is who shall fall next ; whither Secretary Coventry
, or y=e= L=d= Arlington , or S=r= Rob. Car , or y=e= Attorney Generall
, HATTON,I,122.039.939

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they say all thes are under condemnation , but y=t= they will not
be put out all at once ; HATTON,I,122.039.940

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and those two who put out S=r= John Duncombe are not agreed who shall
be first outed . HATTON,I,122.039.941

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Dutchesse of Portsmouth is not well ; HATTON,I,122.039.942

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
her sicknesse , it is said , is encreased by discontent at somebody 's
visiting y=e= Dutchesse Mazarine at my Lady Harvey 's house .
HATTON,I,122.039.943

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_039:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother and humble servant , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,122.039.944

<Q_HAT_A_1676_T_WLONGUEVILLE> <L_HATTON_040> <A_WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1639> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,125>

{ED:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whitson eve , $1676 . HATTON,I,125.040.945

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I now grow , my Lord , strangely concernd to heare how your lady goes
on with her burthen . HATTON,I,125.040.946

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This continued indisposition , with y=e= same accident of your coach
overthrowne , makes mee entertaine just cause of feare .
HATTON,I,125.040.947

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pray spare us your letters so soone as your Lo=p= has any reason to say
there is an amendment . HATTON,I,125.040.948

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A line or two w=d= bee of comfortable importance from Easton .
HATTON,I,125.040.949

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One Ponder , a stationer in Chancery Lane , is taken into custody about
an offensive discourse hee was printing for Naked Truth ,
HATTON,I,125.040.950

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hee is like to name M=r= A. Marvell as y=e= author .
HATTON,I,125.040.951

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= Councill board hath been much entertaind of late about a libell
called y=e= Chronicle , which from y=e= excise men of Herefordshire and
Gloucestershire was fix't on Mr. Herbert Perrot , of y=e= Middle Temple
; by him layd on one Mr. Radford ; by Radford cast upon Mr. Bolton , an
Irish student of y=e= Inner Temple ; HATTON,I,125.040.952

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Bolton againe it was remov'd to one Mr. Clarke ; which Clarke also
quoted Basset 's man , a bookseller in Fleet-streete ;
HATTON,I,125.040.953

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y=e= yong bookseller vouch't Mr. Freake , a yong barrister of y=e=
Middle Temple . HATTON,I,125.040.954

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:37
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_040:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mr. Freake yesterday denying y=e= booksellers oath to bee true , and
refusing to bee examined upon oath against himselfe at y=e= Councill ,
was committed to y=e= Tower , though great bayle was offerd by his
relations . HATTON,I,125.040.955

<Q_HAT_A_1676_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_041> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,126>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
May 18 , 1676 . HATTON,I,126.041.956

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have this day , my L=d= , according to y=r= directions , sent some
cherries and given charge to y=e= carier to send them by Easton , when
he sends y=e= letters . HATTON,I,126.041.957

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There is one pound and half of Duke cherries w=ch= cost 3=sh= y=e=
pound , and 2=lb= of May cherries w=ch= cost 2=sh= y=e= lb .
HATTON,I,126.041.958

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They were y=e= best w=ch= cou'd be got in y=e= market .
HATTON,I,126.041.959

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have also sent 2 paire of Roman gloves w=ch= cost 3=sh= a pair , and
2 paire of tanned leather gloves ; HATTON,I,126.041.960

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
those w=th= lined topps cost 2=sh= 6=d= , y=e= other 18=d= .
HATTON,I,126.041.961

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If y=r= Lo=ppe= doe not like them , you may return them .
HATTON,I,126.041.962

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And w=th= them is y=e= L=d= Hollis his books and a letter from y=e=
Duke of Monmouth , HATTON,I,126.041.963

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will immediately send to y=e= Serjeant who will I am very confident
be made a judge in Ellis his place some time y=e= next terme .
HATTON,I,126.041.964

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= great minister of state is extraordinarily kind to him
HATTON,I,126.041.965

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and assures him y=t= in a very few dayes he will provide for him .
HATTON,I,126.041.966

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The gentlemen of Dorsetshire , to expresse how much they disliked y=e=
verdict for y=e= L=d= Shaftsbury , have subscribed to present my L=d=
Digby w=th= . HATTON,I,126.041.967

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have by y=e= carier sent y=e= cloths w=ch= James left w=th= his wife
, w=ch= are , his new coat , 4 paire of sleeves , 2 paire of cuffs , 2
shirts , 3 cravats , and a riding belt , for w=ch= I payed 8=ll= to
redeeme them , his wife having pawned them for soe much ;
HATTON,I,126.041.968

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I have payd Daniel 7=sh= for his riding coate , w=ch= wase in pawne
, HATTON,I,126.041.969

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath promised to bring it to me some time to morrow .
HATTON,I,126.041.970

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of late severall persons have been examined before y=e= King and
Counsell who have dispersed a scurrilouse libell , called y=e=
Chronicle ; HATTON,I,126.041.971

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and one M=r= Freeke of y=e= Temple wase accused by a booksellers
<P_I,127> prentise to have delivered it to him to transcribe , though
M=r= Freeke denyed it , HATTON,I,127.041.972

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but is committed prisoner to y=e= Tower . HATTON,I,127.041.973

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some sheets of a booke , writ by Andrew Marvel against D=r= Turner 's
Animadversions on Naked Truth , have been taken at y=e= presse ; wherin
, it is said , he did much more sharply and scurilously abuse D=r=
Turner and y=e= B=p= of London then ever he did D=r= Parker .
HATTON,I,127.041.974

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Dutchesse of Portsmouth is gonne for y=e= Bath .
HATTON,I,127.041.975

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She is of late very much indisposed . HATTON,I,127.041.976

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Dutches Mazarine , it is said , is buying y=e= L=d= Windsores house
at St. James , HATTON,I,127.041.977

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will soudainly appeare very splendidly . HATTON,I,127.041.978

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last night y=e= L=d= Cornwallis and M=r= Gerrard , y=e= L=d= Gerrards
son , being in drinke , abused y=e= sentinells in S=t= James Parke ,
HATTON,I,127.041.979

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , after , M=r= Gerrards meeting Cap=t= With 's footboy , upon what
provocation is not yet known , strucke him soe y=t= y=e= boy fell down
dead . HATTON,I,127.041.980

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= sentinell cryed out murder ; whereupon they both fled , but were
pursued into S=r= Stephen Fox his house . HATTON,I,127.041.981

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Cornwallis appeares HATTON,I,127.041.982

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and declares y=t= he wase going up y=e= staires when y=e= boy wase
killed ; HATTON,I,127.041.983

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but heareing murder cryed he returned to M=r= Gerrards and his servants
, who said y=t= their master only hit y=e= boy a box on the eare of
w=ch= he dyed . HATTON,I,127.041.984

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Gerrard absconds himself , HATTON,I,127.041.985

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther appeares noe bruise on y=e= boy but just under his eare .
HATTON,I,127.041.986

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Gazet will informe you of y=e= engagement between y=e= French and
Dutch fleet , wherin De Ruiter had his heele shot of and his leg broke
; HATTON,I,127.041.987

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefor shall say no more of it . HATTON,I,127.041.988

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_041:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother , C. Hatton . HATTON,I,127.041.989

<Q_HAT_A_1676_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_042> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,128>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
May 23 , $1676 . HATTON,I,128.042.990

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} Here wase this day a general reveiw in Hide Parke of
all y=e= Guards in new cloths and my L=d= of Oxfords regiment .
HATTON,I,128.042.991

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= L=d= Cornwallis is put out of y=e= Guards , upon y=e= murder of
y=e= boy in S=t= James 's Parke , of w=ch= I acquainted you in my last
, though it wase then reported y=t= he wase killed only w=th= a box of
y=e= eare ; HATTON,I,128.042.992

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but when y=e= chirurgions searched y=e= corps it was found y=t= his
necke was broke . HATTON,I,128.042.993

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Gerrard is gone into France ; HATTON,I,128.042.994

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my L=d= Cornwallis will stand his tryal , HATTON,I,128.042.995

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and S=r= S=t= Fox hath given in baile for his appearance .
HATTON,I,128.042.996

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The enquest have found it murder . HATTON,I,128.042.997

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Henry Savile is banished y=e= Court for speaking disrespectfully
to y=e= Duke of Yorke , HATTON,I,128.042.998

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but what were y=e= words I doe not know . HATTON,I,128.042.999

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope Andrew Marvel will likewise be made an example for his insolence
in calling D=r= Turner , Chaplain to His Royal Highnesse , Chaplaine to
S=r= Fobling Busy , as he terms him in his scurrilous satyrical answer
to his Animadversions on Naked Truth . HATTON,I,128.042.1000

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_042:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,128.042.1001

<Q_HAT_A_1676_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_043> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,132>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
June 29 $1676 . HATTON,I,132.043.1002

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lord , {ED:...} His {ED:Scroggs'} condition is now much better then
when I writ last to you , HATTON,I,132.043.1003

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Ellis is turned out , HATTON,I,132.043.1004

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and not only y=e= King and my L=d= Chancelor but my L=d= Treasurer doth
positively assure y=e= ser=t= he shall succeed him ;
HATTON,I,132.043.1005

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and next Sunday he is to kisse y=e= King 's hand , for w=ch= it is
thought fit y=t= he shou'd be presented to his Ma=ty= by y=e= L=d=
Chanc. who cou'd not sooner be at leisure . HATTON,I,132.043.1006

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=d= Treasurer declared he wase forced to be unmannerly w=th= y=e=
King in his expressions before he cou'd prevaile w=th= him to out Ellis
; HATTON,I,132.043.1007

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Atkins had now been outed , but y=t= he prevented it by a trick ;
HATTON,I,132.043.1008

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but w=t= that wase I know not . HATTON,I,132.043.1009

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Saterday last wase y=e= day for choosing sherifs in y=e= city and in
y=e= Hall . HATTON,I,132.043.1010

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When y=e= citizens were met , one Ginks , a linnen draper in Cornhill ,
start up HATTON,I,132.043.1011

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told them y=t= he thought it wase very requisite , before they
chose their officers , y=t= they considered how to redresse their
greivances , w=ch= were many , as , y=e= danger of their religion , the
decay of trade , w=ch= he thought did proceed from y=e= prejudice by
y=e= French trade , y=e= King of France having by his edicts prohibited
all our manufactures . HATTON,I,132.043.1012

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He offered to demonstrate y=t= y=e= nation yearely lost by y=e= French
trade per annum ; and y=t= , of late , so many fires had happened y=t=
it wase not to be beleeved but that they were occasioned by some
conspiracy ; HATTON,I,132.043.1013

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore he proposed y=t= my L=d= Mayor might be mooved to call a
common counsell to draw up a petition to his Ma=ty= , that thes
greivances might by a new parliament be redressed .
HATTON,I,132.043.1014

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yesterday , Ginks was examined by y=e= King and Councell and committed
to y=e= gate-house . HATTON,I,132.043.1015

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In his speech he wase by some interrupted , but by y=e= major part
called upon to proceed , <P_I,133> but seconded by none ;
HATTON,I,133.043.1016

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for sherifs they have chosen S=r= Th. Clargies and S=r= Th. Rich ,
lately a hosier in y=e= new exchange . HATTON,I,133.043.1017

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This businesse of Ginks hath been long contriving by y=e= D. of Bucks.
and L=d= Shaftesb. , y=e= later of whom did oppose making any such
motion as yet , judging their buisnesse wase not yet ripe ;
HATTON,I,133.043.1018

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it is s=d= y=e= D. of B. wase for putting it now to y=e= test ,
HATTON,I,133.043.1019

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= miscariage hath occasioned great feuds amongst their partisans
. HATTON,I,133.043.1020

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ginks denyes to have been incited to what he s=d= by any man .
HATTON,I,133.043.1021

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But y=e= fanaticke party , who before were insolently high , are much
crestfallen , since Ginks is clapt up and Ellis layd aside .
HATTON,I,133.043.1022

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Downs is dead . HATTON,I,133.043.1023

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= L=d= Rochester doth abscond , HATTON,I,133.043.1024

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe doth Etheridge , and Cap=t= Bridges who ocasioned y=e= riot
Sunday sennight . HATTON,I,133.043.1025

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They were tossing some fidlers in a blanket for refusing to play ,
HATTON,I,133.043.1026

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a barber , upon y=e= noise , going to see what y=e= matter , they
seized upon him , HATTON,I,133.043.1027

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , to free himself from them , he offered to carry them to y=e=
handsomest woman in Epsom , HATTON,I,133.043.1028

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and directed them to the constables house , who demanding what they
came for , they told him a wh... , HATTON,I,133.043.1029

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , he refusing to let them in , they broke open his doores
HATTON,I,133.043.1030

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and broke his head , HATTON,I,133.043.1031

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and beate him very severely . HATTON,I,133.043.1032

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At last , he made his escape , HATTON,I,133.043.1033

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
called his watch , HATTON,I,133.043.1034

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Etheridge made a submissive oration to them HATTON,I,133.043.1035

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe far appeased them that y=e= constable dismissed his watch .
HATTON,I,133.043.1036

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But presently after , y=e= L=d= Rochester drew upon y=e= constable .
HATTON,I,133.043.1037

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Downs , to prevent his pass , seized on him ,
HATTON,I,133.043.1038

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
y=e= constable cryed out murther , HATTON,I,133.043.1039

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , the watch returning , one came behind M=r= Downs
HATTON,I,133.043.1040

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and with a sprittle staff cleft his scull . HATTON,I,133.043.1041

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= L=d= Rochester and y=e= rest run away , HATTON,I,133.043.1042

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Downs , having noe sword , snatched up a sticke
HATTON,I,133.043.1043

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and striking at them , they run him into y=e= side w=th= a half pike ,
HATTON,I,133.043.1044

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe bruised his arme y=t= he wase <P_I,134> never able to stirr it
after . HATTON,I,134.043.1045

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hath given his estate , w=ch= wase per annum , to his sister ,
HATTON,I,134.043.1046

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is reported y=e= L=d= Shrewsberry is to marry her .
HATTON,I,134.043.1047

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But some say his estate wase entayled on a kinsman of his .
HATTON,I,134.043.1048

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
You see how malitious I am . HATTON,I,134.043.1049

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I punish myself y=t= I may revenge myself on you for y=r= little
scripps of paper . HATTON,I,134.043.1050

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We are much affrighted w=th= a report y=t= part of Kimbolton Castle is
burnt down w=th= lightning , and my lady 's woman killed .
HATTON,I,134.043.1051

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_043:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,134.043.1052

<Q_HAT_A_1676_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_044> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,140>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
December 14 , $1676 . HATTON,I,140.044.1053

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , Last Monday , I received y=rs= of y=e= 9=th= inst. ,
HATTON,I,140.044.1054

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wase very glad to heare you got soe safe to Easton .
HATTON,I,140.044.1055

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
According to y=r= order therin , I desired Madamoisel de la Chappell to
see y=e= Lady Anne Grimston , HATTON,I,140.044.1056

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and accordingly she did ; HATTON,I,140.044.1057

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I desired her to be at an hour 's readinesse , whensoever she
shou'd receive y=r= orders to goe down ; HATTON,I,140.044.1058

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , your Lo=ppe= taking noe notice in y=r= letter when you wou'd have
her goe , made me imagine you did not designe it left this weeke .
HATTON,I,140.044.1059

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But last night , at eleven of y=e= clocke <paren> y=e= extremity of bad
weather occasioned y=e= delivery of y=e= letters soe late </paren> , I
received y=rs= of y=e= 12 inst. , wherin you desired Madamoiselle
shou'd goe down as to day . HATTON,I,140.044.1060

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It wase too late then , either to advertise her , or take a place in
y=e= coach . HATTON,I,140.044.1061

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But this morning , betwixt 3 or 4 of y=e= clocke , I got up
HATTON,I,140.044.1062

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wase to goe to White Hart Yard , in Drury Lane ,
HATTON,I,140.044.1063

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
whereabouts in Drury Lane I knew not . HATTON,I,140.044.1064

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther wase soe great a fogg , HATTON,I,140.044.1065

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it <P_I,141> wase soe extreemly cold , y=t= betwixt my house and
Drury Lane I met noe living creature ; HATTON,I,141.044.1066

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and when I wase in Drury Lane , y=t= I might be directed to White Hart
Yard , I wase forced to knocke up somebody , HATTON,I,141.044.1067

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , over against Drury House , I knocke at a doore ,
HATTON,I,141.044.1068

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , every body in the house being fast asleep , I wase necessitated
to knocke very loud ; HATTON,I,141.044.1069

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at last a man clapt his head out at a window ,
HATTON,I,141.044.1070

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and <paren> y=t= w=ch= wase very pleasant </paren> he imagining I wase
one of my L=d= Craven 's fire-spyes , the first words he said to me
wase : " Where is y=e= fire , S=r= , HATTON,I,141.044.1071

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
where is y=e= fire ? " HATTON,I,141.044.1072

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I humoured him in his errour , for feare of warme water being flung on
my head , HATTON,I,141.044.1073

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told him in Southwarke . HATTON,I,141.044.1074

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He then asked whither my Lord knew of it . HATTON,I,141.044.1075

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told him I cou'd not tell , but I wase going to informe one , who
wase concerned , y=t= lived in White Hart Yard , w=ch= how to find he
gave me very punctuall directions , and desired to know who it wase .
HATTON,I,141.044.1076

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I thought it not convenient to name anybody , HATTON,I,141.044.1077

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but left him , HATTON,I,141.044.1078

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and found M=r=. Housdan $'s house ; HATTON,I,141.044.1079

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , when I had knocked them up , I acquainted them w=th= y=e= reason
of my disturbing them . HATTON,I,141.044.1080

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But Mad. la Chappel would very desirously have deferred going down till
y=e= next opportunity of y=e= coach , w=ch= I thought might have been
displeasing to y=r= Lo=ppe= ; HATTON,I,141.044.1081

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fully satisfyed her y=t= it was absolutely necessary she shou'd
goe this day , HATTON,I,141.044.1082

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , shou'd it thaw , perhapps y=e= coach might not be able to passe
of a weeke , or ten dayes . HATTON,I,141.044.1083

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And when I had prevayled w=th= her to resolve to goe as this day , I
went to Smithfeild , HATTON,I,141.044.1084

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wase but five of y=e= clocke when I got thither ;
HATTON,I,141.044.1085

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , when I had taken a place in y=e= coach , I went
HATTON,I,141.044.1086

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and fetch'd Mad=ll= , HATTON,I,141.044.1087

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , w=th= an addresse to M=r=. Ebriel , I recommended <P_I,142> her
to y=e= care of y=e= passengers , HATTON,I,142.044.1088

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and saw her trunke delivered to y=e= carrier . HATTON,I,142.044.1089

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I gave her shillings in mony , HATTON,I,142.044.1090

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
pay'd fiveteene shillings for her passage , HATTON,I,142.044.1091

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for coach hire , porter , and breakfast I pay'd 4=sh= 6=d= more .
HATTON,I,142.044.1092

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:44?
LETTER:HATTON_044:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,142.044.1093

<Q_HAT_A_1677_T_WDUGDALE> <L_HATTON_045> <A_WILLIAM_DUGDALE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1605> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,144>

{ED:WILLIAM_DUGDALE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Blythe Hall , neere Coleshill , HATTON,I,144.045.1094

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
24 Febr. $1676/7 . HATTON,I,144.045.1095

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My most honoured L=d= , In answer to y=r= Lo=pps= letter <paren> w=ch=
came to my hands this morning </paren> , whereby I understand that S=r=
Edw. Walker is dead <paren> w=ch= as yet I have not heard from any
other </paren> , I do in the first place return my most humble thanks
to y=r= Lo=pp= for your most kinde and noble offer in favouring me
w=th= your assistance for succeeding him in his place of Garter ; w=ch=
I confesse I should looke upon as an injury to me , that any other
should leap over my head , considering that my predecessors in the
office of Norroy have , for many ages , been successors <P_I,145> to
Garter in that office , were my qualifications such as might well sute
therewith . HATTON,I,145.045.1096

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But so it is , that besides my great age <paren> w=ch= is now 72
</paren> , whereby I am not fitt for those attendances as properly
belong thereto , and the dignity of knighthood , w=ch= for the honour
thereof it will be expected I should take upon me , and w=ch= my estate
will not beare , there would be of necessity an expectance that I
should remove my family to London , w=ch= , w=th=out a better support
than the proffits of that office will beare <paren> my own estate being
small </paren> , would be my ruine . HATTON,I,145.045.1097

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There are also four other reasons w=ch= , had I the happinesse to see
your Lo=pp= , I could impart to you . So that , in short , were it
freely offred to me , I should decline it . HATTON,I,145.045.1098

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As to a perfect list of all the peeres , there are of the heraulds now
at our office neere Doctors Commons who can easily fulfill what the
House of Lords have thought fitt to require therein , in case they be
sent to . HATTON,I,145.045.1099

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Touching the Lord Grey <paren> for that is his title , and by w=ch= his
grandfather , upon the judgment given in the House of Peeres , upon the
dispute thereof w=th= Anthony Earle of Kent , grandfather to this Earle
, had his writt of summons , and not Grey of Ruthyn , though commonly
so called </paren> , now that the dignity is descended to him by the
death of his noble mother in whom it was during her life , it matters
not what the Earle of Kent shall object against it ,
HATTON,I,145.045.1100

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is sufficiently setled , as the journalls of the Lords' House
will manifest <paren> of w=ch= I have an abstract </paren> ,
HATTON,I,145.045.1101

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but , till this young Lord be of full age , he is not capable of
sitting in the House of Peeres , HATTON,I,145.045.1102

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore $can $not {TEXT:cannot} properly move the King by
petition for his writt of summons . HATTON,I,145.045.1103

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If the Earle of Kent have a minde to say anything in opposition thereof
, then will be his time to do it . HATTON,I,145.045.1104

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And when this <P_I,146> Lord Grey shall be setled in the House ,
according to his just right , then will be his most proper time to
except against the Earle of Kent for usurping the title of L=d= Grey of
Ruthyn , whereunto he hath not any right , though de facto he useth it
. HATTON,I,146.045.1105

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At the beginning of Easter terme I resolve <paren> God willing </paren>
to be in London , and then to wayt on your Lo=pp= .
HATTON,I,146.045.1106

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , if your Lo=pp= shall thinke fitt to write to me in the meane time
, write your name on the backside your letter , w=ch= is the note
whereby your letters in parliament time , and days before and after ,
do passe w=th=out payment for the postage . HATTON,I,146.045.1107

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heare in generall that there is great hopes of a good progress in
parliament this session , notw=th=standing the malevolent practises of
the presbyterians and their partizans , w=ch= is no small joy to all
good subjects in these parts . HATTON,I,146.045.1108

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_045:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So praying for your Lo=pps= good health w=th= all happiness , I rest
Your Lo=pps= most humble and most obliged servant , W=m= Dugdale .
HATTON,I,146.045.1109

<Q_HAT_A_1677_FN_FHATTON> <L_HATTON_046>
<A_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_--->
<A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,147>

{ED:LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Kirby , HATTON,I,147.046.1110

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March the 31=th= , $1677 . HATTON,I,147.046.1111

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My deare lord , I hope you have received all my letters this week ;
HATTON,I,147.046.1112

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I never missed any opportunity , only by the caryer .
HATTON,I,147.046.1113

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad that you design to com . HATTON,I,147.046.1114

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your coach shall be sure to meet you at Baldock ; HATTON,I,147.046.1115

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but you must be sure to send me word what horsemen you would have , and
at what time the coach must be there . HATTON,I,147.046.1116

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I find you intend to be at Kimbolton that night . HATTON,I,147.046.1117

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pray be sure to send me word wheathere you will be here by dinner or
not . HATTON,I,147.046.1118

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I believe you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} , HATTON,I,147.046.1119

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but be sure you let me know . HATTON,I,147.046.1120

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
One of your best coach horses has been like to dye ;
HATTON,I,147.046.1121

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but wee hope the danger is past . HATTON,I,147.046.1122

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had Shefeld with him , and all the care that can bee .
HATTON,I,147.046.1123

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope he will <P_I,148> doe well , HATTON,I,148.046.1124

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but they say I must not venter him in the coach so farr a great whill .
HATTON,I,148.046.1125

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But one of the cart horsses will doe in the coach very well .
HATTON,I,148.046.1126

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Poor little Susana is very ill about her teeth . HATTON,I,148.046.1127

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope in God they will not be long before they be cut .
HATTON,I,148.046.1128

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Shee bares it with a great deal of patience . HATTON,I,148.046.1129

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lady Rockingam has been with me yesterday . HATTON,I,148.046.1130

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thought there had been wine enough in the house ,
HATTON,I,148.046.1131

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but there is none left . HATTON,I,148.046.1132

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But there is forteen botles of Renish and all the sherie sack that was
, but noe other ; HATTON,I,148.046.1133

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so now you may the better gess what you must send down .
HATTON,I,148.046.1134

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some sack you will need I am sure . HATTON,I,148.046.1135

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My deare Lord , I should be very glad you would bring some chocolate
along with you . HATTON,I,148.046.1136

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope I shall receive a good acount of all your business ,
HATTON,I,148.046.1137

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I long to know . HATTON,I,148.046.1138

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My daughter Nany is very well , HATTON,I,148.046.1139

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was yesterday at my Lord Brudnal 's . HATTON,I,148.046.1140

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I believe I shall like your cook very well . HATTON,I,148.046.1141

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pray , deare , let Smith buy a Wesfaily ham and two or three neats
tongues . HATTON,I,148.046.1142

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I would fain get every thing pretty handsome against my Lord Manchester
comes . HATTON,I,148.046.1143

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope I shall know the time . HATTON,I,148.046.1144

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am , my deare Lord , overjoyed to hear that your business goes on so
well with the Bishop . HATTON,I,148.046.1145

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I long till the Act of Parliment be passed . HATTON,I,148.046.1146

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I received D=r= Kings letter ; HATTON,I,148.046.1147

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I shall not need much of his phiseck , HATTON,I,148.046.1148

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thank God I am much better . HATTON,I,148.046.1149

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Smith forgot to send the pickales down ; HATTON,I,148.046.1150

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I beg they may not faile this next week , HATTON,I,148.046.1151

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , with them , some oyle , HATTON,I,148.046.1152

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
about a pint will be enough , because wee shall stay noe great whill
there . HATTON,I,148.046.1153

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I return you many thanks for the oysters . HATTON,I,148.046.1154

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can write noe more , to morow being sacrament day .
HATTON,I,148.046.1155

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , for God sake , make hast down , HATTON,I,148.046.1156

AUTHOR:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_046:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am weary of my life . HATTON,I,148.046.1157

<Q_HAT_A_1677_T_WDUDGDALE> <L_HATTON_047> <A_WILLIAM_DUGDALE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1605> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,149>

{ED:WILLIAM_DUGDALE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Blythe Hall , neere Coleshill , HATTON,I,149.047.1158

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
7 Apr. 1677 . HATTON,I,149.047.1159

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My most honoured L=d= , By your Lo=pps= letter dated on Tuesday last I
perceive that it is his Ma=ties= pleasure that I shall have this office
of Garter , though , by a letter to me of the same date from the Earle
Marshall 's secretary , I finde that his Lo=pp= commanded him to let me
know that his Lo=pp= hath made choyse of me to that office , willing me
to hasten up w=th= all convenient speed . HATTON,I,149.047.1160

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I must confesse that the news thereof hath much discomposed me , having
<paren> by reason of my age , and other inconveniences w=ch= may befall
me by undergoing this imployment , </paren> resolved of a retired life
; HATTON,I,149.047.1161

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but , on the other side , to decline this high favour from his Ma=tie=
and the like <paren> for so I must now believe it </paren> from my Lord
Marshall I know not how , w=th= my safetie , to do ;
HATTON,I,149.047.1162

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therefore have determined , w=th= all humility , to submit to God
$Almightye $s {TEXT:Almightyes} disposall of me herein , and , in order
thereto , to be in London on Wednsday evening next ; and , as soon as I
can enquire out your Lo=pps= lodging , to wayt upon you , there to
present my personall thanks to you for your great favours herein ; but
in the meane time to intreate that you will please to stand my freind
to his Ma=tie= , in case you can have any fit opportunitie so farr to
represent my condition unto him <paren> w=th= my most bounden thanks
for this great favour </paren> , as to desire that , though many of my
predecessors in this office have had the dignitie of knighthood
conferr'd upon them , his Ma=tie= will excuse me therein ;
HATTON,I,149.047.1163

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for otherwise I am sure that hatred and scorne will be my portion from
very many people , by reason of my low estate . HATTON,I,149.047.1164

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When M=r= Camden <paren> who was a person much my superior every way
</paren> was offred to be made a knight by K. James , he humbly
declined it , though his place of Clarenceiux did in point of proffit
far exceed <P_I,150> that of Garter ; HATTON,I,150.047.1165

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope his Ma=tie= will not thinke it more dishonour to himself to
be served in this office by an esquire than his grandfather did in that
of Clarenceiux by M=r= Camden . HATTON,I,150.047.1166

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My other sute is , that his Ma=tie= will vouchsafe <paren> by reason of
my age and the infirmities incident thereto </paren> to dispense w=th=
my personall residence in London , considering I shall take care not to
be absent from any dutie of consequence , and provide a fitt person at
other times to performe whatever is requisite , as some of my
predecessors have done ; HATTON,I,150.047.1167

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lastly , whereas I am to undergo the whole service of Garter at
this installation , in Easter weeke , of the Duke of Newcastle and L=d=
Treasurer , that I may , through his speciall grace and goodness , not
be abridged of the usuall fees for the same , though my patent for
creation be not then passed by reason of the shortness of time .
HATTON,I,150.047.1168

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am loath to make any one my mediator herein but your Lo=pp= , to whom
I do beleive I must owe my total thanks for whatsoever benefit I shall
have by this office , HATTON,I,150.047.1169

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I am fully satisfyed that the character w=ch= you have given me to
the King hath been the ocasion of all this ; HATTON,I,150.047.1170

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , as to my L=d= Marshall , I know he was totally engaged to bring
in M=r= Lee , HATTON,I,150.047.1171

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I beleive that the King , by such meanes as S=r= W=m= Haward made ,
did wholly incline to him . HATTON,I,150.047.1172

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My L=d= , I heartily crave pardon for this my over-boldnesse w=th= you
, HATTON,I,150.047.1173

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DUGDALE:MALE:_:1605:72
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_047:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so , praying for your good health , do rest Your L=pps= most
obliged servant and honourer , W=m= Dugdale . HATTON,I,150.047.1174

<Q_HAT_A_1677_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_048> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,151>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
October 23 , 1677 . HATTON,I,151.048.1175

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wee are all here in town , my L=d= , soe full of joy at y=e=
declaration y=t= Lady Mary is to be marryed to y=e= Prince of Orange
y=t= , tho' I have many other things to say to y=r= Lo=ppe= , I $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} refrayne from acquainting you with y=t= in y=e=
first place . HATTON,I,151.048.1176

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Sunday his Ma=ty= declared to y=e= cabinet counsel y=t= y=e= match
betwixt Lady Mary and y=e= Prince of Orange wase concluded on ,
HATTON,I,151.048.1177

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= Privy Counsell wase summoned yesterday morning ,
HATTON,I,151.048.1178

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther his Ma=ty= did publickly acquaint y=e= L=ds= therw=th= ;
HATTON,I,151.048.1179

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , presently after , y=e= Duke of Yorke came in
HATTON,I,151.048.1180

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tooke his place , not as a Privy Counsellor but at some distance
from y=e= table . HATTON,I,151.048.1181

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , in a speech to y=e= L=ds= , he wase pleased to take notice y=t=
he had been misrepresented , as if he sought to disunite y=e= kingdome
, HATTON,I,151.048.1182

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he declared he never did , nor ever wou'd , attempt to make any
alteration in y=e= establish'd government of y=e= kingdome , either-2
in matters of Church or State ; and y=t= his inclination , as well as
his interest , obliged him to preserve y=e= peace and unity of y=e=
kingdome , w=ch= he shou'd ever promote , and , in order thereto , had
given his consent to y=e= mariage of his daughter w=th= y=e= Prince of
Orange . After w=ch= , severall L=ds= of y=e= Counsell made
complemental speech to his Highnesse ; HATTON,I,151.048.1183

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= L=ds= ordred y=t= y=e= L=d= Maior of London shou'd be
acquainted w=th= y=e= mariage intended and shou'd order bonfires to be
made in y=e= city . HATTON,I,151.048.1184

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After y=e= Counsel wase up , Lady Mary declared her consent ;
HATTON,I,151.048.1185

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in y=e= afternoone all y=e= Ministers of State and L=ds= of y=e=
Counsell went in a body to waite on Lady Mary and y=e= Prince of Orange
; HATTON,I,151.048.1186

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= whole night wase spent in ringing of bells and bonfires and
y=e= greatest expressions of joy w=ch= I beleeve were ever in England ,
except at y=e= King 's restauration . HATTON,I,151.048.1187

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This day all y=e= judges went in a body to congratulate y=e= Lady Mary
and y=e= Prince . HATTON,I,151.048.1188

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=d= Cheife Justice made a long speech , HATTON,I,151.048.1189

<P_I,152>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and how eloquent I need not say . HATTON,I,152.048.1190

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They all kissed Lady Maryes hand , HATTON,I,152.048.1191

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and offered to doe y=e= like to y=e= Prince ; HATTON,I,152.048.1192

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wou'd not permit it , HATTON,I,152.048.1193

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but shooke them all by y=e= hand HATTON,I,152.048.1194

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gave them thanks for their compliment , HATTON,I,152.048.1195

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
told them he shou'd ever endeavour to promote y=e= interest of y=e=
kingdome , HATTON,I,152.048.1196

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shou'd be glad to serve them in particular . HATTON,I,152.048.1197

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The clergy did not goe in a body , HATTON,I,152.048.1198

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but all y=e= b=pps= in town have separately made their compliments .
HATTON,I,152.048.1199

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Arch=Bp= of Canterbury lies soe weake , it is thought he $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} live but a few dayes longer . HATTON,I,152.048.1200

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Several personns are discoursed of to succeed him , y=e= B=p= of London
, Yorke , Oxford , Durham , and Winchester . HATTON,I,152.048.1201

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,152.048.1202

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=d= Treasurer of all y=e= Ministers of State hath soly been
entrusted w=th= y=e= management of y=e= treaty of mariage w=th= y=e=
Prince and Lady Mary . HATTON,I,152.048.1203

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Sunday , in y=e= morning , y=e= King , y=e= Duke , y=e= Prince ,
and my L=d= Treasurer , were 3 houres shut up in y=e= King 's chamber ,
y=e= L=d= Chancelor and other ministers attending without for a long
time ; HATTON,I,152.048.1204

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they were , in y=e= afternoone , as long in private .
HATTON,I,152.048.1205

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=d= Chancelor , L=d= Privy Seale , and y=e= 2 Secretaries are
ordred to draw up y=e= articles of mariage ; HATTON,I,152.048.1206

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is said y=e= Prince will now in a very few dayes return for
Holland . HATTON,I,152.048.1207

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosen Montague is expected from Paris in extraordinary business .
HATTON,I,152.048.1208

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To-morrow S=r= Rob=t= Howard 's businesse shou'd come on ,
HATTON,I,152.048.1209

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he is very sicke on it , HATTON,I,152.048.1210

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hath y=e= gout HATTON,I,152.048.1211

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} stand long ; HATTON,I,152.048.1212

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:45?
LETTER:HATTON_048:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it is thought he will endeavour to keepe of y=e= evil as long as he
can . HATTON,I,152.048.1213

<Q_HAT_A_1678_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_049> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,162>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
June 18 , 1678 . HATTON,I,162.049.1214

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lord , {ED:...} The day S=r= Will. Scroggs came up as L=d= Ch.
Justice into Westminster Hall , I met M=r= Longuevill ther ,
HATTON,I,162.049.1215

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he then very politickely advised me to desist now from going so
frequently as formerly I did to y=e= new L=d= Cheif Justice his house ;
HATTON,I,162.049.1216

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it might occasion y=e= like report , as formerly ther wase of y=r=
Lo=ppe= , y=t= I went a suitor to M=rs= Gilby . HATTON,I,162.049.1217

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I gave him sufficient assurance , as I thought , y=t= , if ther was any
such report , it wase as groundlesse as y=t= of y=r= Lo=ppe= had been ;
HATTON,I,162.049.1218

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I told him I did not thinke it reasonable to follow his advise in
desisting from going to y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice , HATTON,I,162.049.1219

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , by y=e= same reason , I must forbeare going to any house wher
there wase a young woman unmarried ; HATTON,I,162.049.1220

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I never of late went to any such <P_I,163> place , but it wase
reported I went a woing ; HATTON,I,163.049.1221

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my cosen Roan , being at Kirby , hath raised a great report y=t= I
went soe frequently down of late only in designe to court her .
HATTON,I,163.049.1222

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But because I wou'd not follow M=r= Longuevill 's advise , whenever he
comes , according to his politicke way of spreading of news , he
wispers it about as a great secret , injoyning all persons to privacy ,
y=t= I goe every day to y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice his house to court M=rs=
Gilby ; w=ch= is every word true alike , HATTON,I,163.049.1223

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my indisposition of late hath kept me from going thither but very
seldome , HATTON,I,163.049.1224

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and M=rs= Gilby hath not been in town thes six weekes .
HATTON,I,163.049.1225

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Almost all y=e= last terme I wase in Northamtonshire .
HATTON,I,163.049.1226

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Before y=e= end of y=e= terme all S=r= William Scroggs his family and
M=rs= Dos and M=rs= Dol. and M=rs= Mary Phetiplace went to Weild Hall
HATTON,I,163.049.1227

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and designed to stay ther till Michaelmas . HATTON,I,163.049.1228

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , as soone as he wase declared L=d= Cheife , y=e= Saterday
following , he went down to Weild Hall , designing to receive y=e=
sacrament in y=e= Weild church ; HATTON,I,163.049.1229

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , businesse obliging him to leave his servants here in town , he
desired me to goe down to be a witnesse for him , as I did ;
HATTON,I,163.049.1230

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , y=e= Monday following , he brought up his lady and daughter Anne
, HATTON,I,163.049.1231

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
left his daughter Gilby and y=e= rest of his family <paren> who desired
me to give y=r= Lo=ppe= their service </paren> at Weild Hall .
HATTON,I,163.049.1232

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Had it not been for an accident , I had not seen her thes 2 months ,
nor , in all probability , shall not thes four months .
HATTON,I,163.049.1233

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must needs say I thinke her a very good woman , HATTON,I,163.049.1234

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but she hath one damnable fault , and an unpardonable one : no portion
except 3 boys , w=ch= y=r= Lo=ppe= wants ; HATTON,I,163.049.1235

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I desire not to meddle with y=e= mother , except y=r= Lo=ppe= will
take y=e= boys . HATTON,I,163.049.1236

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall now give you y=e= best account I can how S=r= William Scroggs
came to be made L=d= Ch. Justice , HATTON,I,163.049.1237

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am sure you will be very desirous to know it ,
HATTON,I,163.049.1238

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and am certain you will keepe secret what I shall say , soe y=t=
neither I nor any personells shall receive any prejudice by what I
shall disclose to you . HATTON,I,163.049.1239

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Whit Sunday , he <P_I,164> wase sent for up to to town to confer
w=th= His M=ty= and y=e= L=d= Treasurer and to receiye instructions for
making a speech for y=e= King to y=e= Parl=t= , who wase to meet y=e=
Thursday following and had , little before , for their peevishnesse ,
been prorogu'd by his Ma=ty= . HATTON,I,164.049.1240

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= William made a speech , HATTON,I,164.049.1241

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but their were in it some expressions ag=t= popery , w=ch= were by one
person disliked and therfore y=e= whole speech rejected .
HATTON,I,164.049.1242

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther were 3 speeches made for His Ma=ty= , one by y=e= L=d= Treasurer ,
one by y=e= present Ch. Justice , and one by S=r= Will. Temple , w=ch=
last wase approved of at y=e= cabinet and wase y=e= speech y=e= King
spoke , w=ch= I sent you in print ; HATTON,I,164.049.1243

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , tho' the Ch. Justice speech wase not spoke , yet his Ma=ty= and
y=e= L=d= Treasurer were very well pleased w=th= him ,
HATTON,I,164.049.1244

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , great complaint being made of y=e= unactivenesse of y=e= late
L=d= Ch. Justice , who most commonly slept on y=e= bench , y=e= King
told S=r= Will. Scroggs that y=e= next remove of y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice
he wase in danger to be promoted ; HATTON,I,164.049.1245

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y=e= L=d= Treasurer discoursing w=th= him to y=e= like effect , and
y=t= it wase very requisite , as soone as y=e= Parl=t= wase up , it
wou'd be necessary to give y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice his quietus .
HATTON,I,164.049.1246

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= William told y=e= L=d= Treasurer y=t= , if it wase done
immediately after y=e= rising of y=e= Parl=t= , ther being now such
jealosies of an arbitary governm=t= , people wou'd not beleeve that
y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice wase lay'd asyde for his incapacity for y=e=
place , but that it wase only to make roome for him who wou'd better
serve a turn ; HATTON,I,164.049.1247

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and this wou'd beget in y=e= people a prepossession ag=st= him ,
HATTON,I,164.049.1248

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he shou'd not be soe well able to doe the King y=t= service , as if
he wase put in during y=e= Session of y=e= Parl=t= ;
HATTON,I,164.049.1249

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for then people wou'd be apter to beleeve y=t= y=e= late L=d= Ch.
Justice wase solely remooved for his incapacity . HATTON,I,164.049.1250

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This reason did worke y=e= good effect w=th= my L=d= Treasurer for
w=ch= it wase designed , HATTON,I,164.049.1251

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he approving thereof effectually pressed y=e= King immediately to
remove Rainsfort . HATTON,I,164.049.1252

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And y=e= L=d= Chancelor presently after complaining to y=e= King of
y=e= weekenesse of y=e= King 's bench , by reason of y=e= inactivenesse
of y=e= L=d= Ch. Justice , and y=t= Twisden wase quite antiquated and
Wild very infirme , and moving y=e= King to allow <P_I,165> thes 3
pentions and put others in their places , the King said he wou'd not
pay 15 judges and have but 12 in service , HATTON,I,165.049.1253

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wou'd for Scrogs his sake give a yeare , HATTON,I,165.049.1254

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and immediately ordred Rainsfort to be removed . HATTON,I,165.049.1255

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Saterday , y=e= House of Commons voted y=t= they wou'd receive noe
proposall for mony this sessions after this day . HATTON,I,165.049.1256

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yesterday , they tooke into consideration the charge of y=e= navy , and
how to raise y=e= for w=ch= they stood engaged to y=e= King ;
HATTON,I,165.049.1257

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but w=t= they determin'd therein I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet informe
you . HATTON,I,165.049.1258

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It will be time enouf by y=e= next oportunity . HATTON,I,165.049.1259

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose you see y=e= vote of Parl=t= for disbanding y=e= army ;
HATTON,I,165.049.1260

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yesterday orders were issued out for several companies and troopes
out of severall new raised regiments to march for Ireland .
HATTON,I,165.049.1261

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Perhapps you may wonder y=t= y=e= Parl=t= did allow but for disbanding
y=e= army ; HATTON,I,165.049.1262

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but they did comput that that , added to y=e= poll bill , wou'd be
sufficient ; HATTON,I,165.049.1263

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for y=e= paymasters gave them an accompt that y=e= pay of y=e= army to
y=e= last of May amounted to HATTON,I,165.049.1264

{COM:BILL_OMITTED}

<P_I,166>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Rob=t= Car is turn'd out of y=e= Councell , HATTON,I,166.049.1265

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and had been out of his place of Chancelor of y=e= Dutchy but his
patent is durante vita` . HATTON,I,166.049.1266

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His crime is , appearing very high in y=e= House of Commons for y=e=
bringing in S=r= Will. Ellis in opposition to S=r= Rob=t= Markam ,
return'd burghess for Grantham , and befreinded by my L=d= Lindsey and
his kindred . HATTON,I,166.049.1267

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Will. Ellis is nephew to Judge Ellis , looked upon as a disafected
person , HATTON,I,166.049.1268

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and S=r= Rob=t= Car wase commanded by y=e= King not to endeavoure to
bring into parl=t= a person disafected to y=e= governm=t= , that he
might gratify his owne private animosity ag=st= my L=d= Lindsey and his
relations . HATTON,I,166.049.1269

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But S=r= Rob=t= wase very violent for S=r= Will. Ellis ,
notwithstanding his Ma=ties= command . HATTON,I,166.049.1270

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will not beg your pardon I can write noe more but for having writ soe
much . HATTON,I,166.049.1271

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe HATTON,I,166.049.1272

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hope you will excuse me considering how indisposed I am to
everybody ells . HATTON,I,166.049.1273

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_049:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am Y=r= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,166.049.1274

<Q_HAT_A_1678_FN_MHATTON> <L_HATTON_050> <A_MARY_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,167>

{ED:MARY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July y=e= 17 , $1678 . HATTON,I,167.050.1275

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dearest Brother {ED:...} , My designes , as you know , are broke ,
since a peace is absolutly determined . HATTON,I,167.050.1276

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The K. consents to disband the army , onely that in garrisons , in
Flanders , to stand till peace is determined generaly .
HATTON,I,167.050.1277

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Robert Carr is turned out from being Chancelour of the Dutchy .
HATTON,I,167.050.1278

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was too much a freind to L=d= Arlington to stand .
HATTON,I,167.050.1279

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The next <P_168> news he gives me is a pleasant storry that begings
thus : HATTON,168.050.1280

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Daincourt , Lady Gray , and M=is= Smith walked still on .
HATTON,168.050.1281

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the Park , the first left them , HATTON,168.050.1282

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and going home in her chair , the L=d= of Monmouth mistaks the Lady
Gray HATTON,168.050.1283

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gives her a billet . HATTON,168.050.1284

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When she came home , she gives it her husband , who was angry with her
, least y=e= L=d= should be displeased at the misfortun of his billet ;
HATTON,168.050.1285

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he caryes it presently to him , HATTON,168.050.1286

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
beggs his pardon in the mistake . HATTON,168.050.1287

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=d= beggs his , lest he should take the giving of the letter ill
to his wife . HATTON,168.050.1288

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus much for Inglish news . HATTON,168.050.1289

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What I have to aquaint you w=th=all of Paris news is our cosin
Montagues being gon last Monday post towards Ingland , opon my Lord
Sunderland 's being sent hither ambassador , which bussness they say my
Lady Cleavland has intrigued , out of revenge to the ambass. for being
soe jealous of her for one Chevalier Chatillon as to wright it wheire
he thought it might doe her most prejudice , which she being advertised
of , and attributing to it the cold reception she found when she was
laitly in Ingland , has , as they say , acussed him of not being
faithfull to his master in the imployment he gave him here ; too which
there is another particular that dus much agravate her ,
HATTON,168.050.1290

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that is that , whillest she was in Ingland , the ambas. was every
day with her daughter Sussex , which has ocationed such jealously of
all sides that , for the saffty of my Lady Sussex , it is reported the
ambas. advissed her to a nunnery , and made choice of Belle Chase for
her , where she is at present and will not see her mother .
HATTON,168.050.1291

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Chevalier Chatillon is a person of quallity , young and handsome ,
HATTON,168.050.1292

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but noe istate , and therefore &c. ; HATTON,168.050.1293

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
pour la <P_169> bigotte , si elle ne peut courrir , quelle trotte ,
with which French proverb I will now eaise you of this trouble , and
onely begg one favour more of you , that you will ever beleeve me ,
what sincerly I am , Deare brother , Yr most affec. sister and humble
servant to command , M. H. HATTON,169.050.1294

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Deare brother , I am not afraid of y=r= getting the small pox ,
HATTON,169.050.1295

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_050:E3:1678:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for God saike have a care of coming neare those that have the
feavour . HATTON,169.050.1296

<Q_HAT_A_1678?_FN_MHATTON> <L_HATTON_051> <A_MARY_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,169>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sept. y=e= 6th $1678? HATTON,I,169.051.1297

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It comes in my mind to aske you if you have , in England , stel penns ;
because , if you have not , I will indevour to gett you some by one
that told me of them , and did asseur me neither the glass penns nor
any other sorts are neare soe good . HATTON,I,169.051.1298

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duchesse of $Monmouth , laitly arrived at Paris , went yesterday
towards Bourbon . HATTON,I,169.051.1299

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She dus gaine upon all that visitts her here for her tender hart to the
Romain Catho. in Ingland . HATTON,I,169.051.1300

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Doctor Goffe taks ye care of all her affaires here .
HATTON,I,169.051.1301

AUTHOR:MARY_HATTON:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:46?
LETTER:HATTON_051:E3:1678?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= lo=p= most affec. sister and humble servant to command .
HATTON,I,169.051.1302

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FO_A1MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_052> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_AUNT> <A-DOB_1628?>
<R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_NIECE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,174>

{ED:THE_COUNTESS_OF_MANCHESTER_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
11 Feb . $1679 HATTON,I,174.052.1303

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am very much concernd to heare of the loss of your little girl .
HATTON,I,174.052.1304

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I thought it had bine grown very stronge , HATTON,I,174.052.1305

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I suppose it twas {COM:sic} <P_1,175> somethinge concerninge the
teeth . HATTON,1,175.052.1306

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I hope God will soone make it up by sendinge you a son .
HATTON,1,175.052.1307

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I give you a thousand thankes for your kindnes to y=e= girls .
HATTON,1,175.052.1308

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kattes illness was a feaver , HATTON,1,175.052.1309

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and left her soe weake and fante that she will be some time before she
can stirr any wither . HATTON,1,175.052.1310

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I hope to see you aganest the parlim=t= in towne , w=ch= will now bee
very quickly . HATTON,1,175.052.1311

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I suppose you have all the news from your $brother , who is a great man
amongest the ladyes . HATTON,1,175.052.1312

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He comes sometimes to us ; HATTON,1,175.052.1313

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I am forced to putt him out of doores att night ,
HATTON,1,175.052.1314

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he is such an etternall sitter up att nights . HATTON,1,175.052.1315

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am just now come from takeing y=e= oathes and subscribing y=e= Test
in y=e= Court of Chanserie , as all the Queen's servants are to doe .
HATTON,1,175.052.1316

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yesterday the 3 men acussed by Prance was condemned , att w=ch= the
people made y=e= $grattest show of satisfaction imaginable .
HATTON,1,175.052.1317

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lady Gerard was in the Citty taken <paren> in a chaire </paren> to
bee y=e= Dutchess of Portsmouth , and called the French whore ;
HATTON,1,175.052.1318

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and soe many gott about the chaire as much frighted $her .
HATTON,1,175.052.1319

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But some w=th= her told who she was . HATTON,1,175.052.1320

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
S=r= Jhos: Williamson was told by the Kinge one Sunday morninge he was
noe longer fitt for y=t= employm=t= as the Kinges afferes att this time
was , and y=e= secretarie's plaice given to my L=d= Sunderland .
HATTON,1,175.052.1321

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He is promised to have y=e= given him he payed for it , together w=th=
S=r= Floyde is to pay for his plaice . HATTON,1,175.052.1322

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He was much surprised , not in y=e= least expecting it .
HATTON,1,175.052.1323

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$'T $is {TEXT:Tis} said y=e= orther will bee removed to .
HATTON,1,175.052.1324

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I begg my servous to your Lord , HATTON,1,175.052.1325

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_052:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine Your most affectionat aunt and servant , A. Manchester .
HATTON,1,175.052.1326

<Q_HAT_A_1679_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_053> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,176>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<em> 4 March , 1679 . </em> HATTON,I,176.053.1327

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , That on y=e= other side is a coppy of y=e= K=gs= to y=e= Duke
, who , in obedience to it , went away yesterday w=th= y=e= Duchesse .
HATTON,I,176.053.1328

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It was known to but very few the night before y=t= y=e= Duke wd. goe ;
tho' it were guessed he wd. not stay long after her .
HATTON,I,176.053.1329

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is gone w=th= him my L=d= Peeterborow , Ned Griffith , Fortrey ,
Coll: Worden , and some under servants . HATTON,I,176.053.1330

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest will soone follow . HATTON,I,176.053.1331

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
$It $'s {TEXT:It's} sayd they goe first into Holland , and after to
Bruxelles , to reside ; HATTON,I,176.053.1332

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I phancy $they $'ll {TEXT:theyle} land at Ostend .
HATTON,I,176.053.1333

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I went after them yesterday to Eerif , where they went aboard y=e=
yacht , HATTON,I,176.053.1334

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tooke my leave . HATTON,I,176.053.1335

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I beleeve they are still there and like to be so yet ,
HATTON,I,176.053.1336

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the wind is directly ags=t= them , HATTON,I,176.053.1337

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and little appearance of a sudden change ; HATTON,I,176.053.1338

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I beleeve they will endure it . HATTON,I,176.053.1339

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This is news enough in conscience , my L=d= , for once ;
HATTON,I,176.053.1340

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
therefore , w=th= my humble services to y=r= L=p= , I kisse y=r= hands
. HATTON,I,176.053.1341

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=r= humblest servant , C. Lyttelton . HATTON,I,176.053.1342

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It was once intended Lady Anne sh=d= have gone w=th= them ;
HATTON,I,176.053.1343

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but since , that was altered by order of Councell , as I heard .
HATTON,I,176.053.1344

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My B=r= is returned hither , HATTON,I,176.053.1345

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_053:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and is so for burgesse of Litchfield . HATTON,I,176.053.1346

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_054> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,177>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March 4 , $1678/9 . HATTON,I,177.054.1347

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} Here is very prodigious news , w=ch= noebody wou'd
beleeve till they saw y=e= event . HATTON,I,177.054.1348

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duke of Yorke is gone beyond sea , set forward yesterday .
HATTON,I,177.054.1349

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Saterday , it wase reported y=t= y=e= Dutches and Lady Anne
designed , as yesterday , to goe for Holland , to visit y=e= Princess
of Orange , HATTON,I,177.054.1350

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wase wispered y=t= y=e= Duke wou'd follow ;
HATTON,I,177.054.1351

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= Lady Anne went not , HATTON,I,177.054.1352

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= Duke and Dutchesse set out yesterday . HATTON,I,177.054.1353

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Severall bishopps were lately w=th= his Royall Highness , to endeavour
to convert him , HATTON,I,177.054.1354

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he told them plainly he wou'd neither be of their religion nor
pretend to be of it . HATTON,I,177.054.1355

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The King , it is said , therupon told his Highness y=t= , if he did not
return to y=e= Church of England , he must for some time withdraw
himself beyound sea , HATTON,I,177.054.1356

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or els y=e= parl=t= wou'd be soe incensed as to press w=th= great
violence the passing acts of par=lt= to y=e= utmost prejudice of his
Royal Highnesse , who then desired his Ma=ty= y=t= , for y=e= securing
y=e= succession of y=e= crown to him , his Ma=ty= wou'd in Counsell
declare and have it entred y=t= he wase never marryed to any person but
Queen Catherin ; HATTON,I,177.054.1357

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and accordingly his Ma=ty= did soe declare last Fryday in Counsell .
HATTON,I,177.054.1358

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said y=t= , at y=e= Duke 's further request , his Ma=ty= write
y=e= enclosed letter . HATTON,I,177.054.1359

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= and my sister Hattons truly affection=t= Brother and
humble serv=t= , C. Hatton . HATTON,I,177.054.1360

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_054:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall take care about y=e= apricocke trees . HATTON,I,177.054.1361

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_055> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,179>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mar. 8 , $1678/9 . HATTON,I,179.055.1362

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose , my L=d= , y=r= Lo=ppe= may be desirous to be informed fully
of all y=e= parliamentary proceedings since y=e= houses met ,
HATTON,I,179.055.1363

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am very confident you have much better intelligenc then I can
give , HATTON,I,179.055.1364

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yet perhapps I may here have heard some circumstances , and thos not
inconsiderable , w=th= w=ch= y=r= corispondents may not have acquainted
you . HATTON,I,179.055.1365

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall therfore let you know what I heare from y=e= most intelligent
personns of my acquaintance . HATTON,I,179.055.1366

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last Thursday morning there wase a rumour as if S=r= Thomas Meeres ,
not M=r= Seimor , wase design'd by y=e= court to be Speaker of y=e=
House of Commons , who , as soone as they were return'd to their House
, after y=e= enclos'd speeches were finish'd , ther wase a short pause
in y=e= House ; HATTON,I,179.055.1367

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then Birch start up HATTON,I,179.055.1368

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and said , he beleeved , noe person being recommended to them , y=t=
his Ma=ty= resolved to leave them to make a free choice of their
Speaker , HATTON,I,179.055.1369

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , for his part , he thought noe man soe fitt and acceptable to y=e=
House as M=r= Seymor . Whereupon , S=r= Thomas Lee , S=r= Rich=d=
Ingoldsby , and all y=t= party did , in a very tumultuous way , take
M=r= Seymor and carry him to y=e= chaire . HATTON,I,179.055.1370

<P_I,180>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= John Ernly attempted to speak , HATTON,I,180.055.1371

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= tumult wase soe great noebody cou'd be heard .
HATTON,I,180.055.1372

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Secretary Coventry is very ill HATTON,I,180.055.1373

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wase not ther . HATTON,I,180.055.1374

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As soon as M=r= Seymor wase in y=e= chaire , he gave y=e= House thanks
for their favour to him , HATTON,I,180.055.1375

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and did , after y=e= usuall manner , endeavour to disable himself ,
HATTON,I,180.055.1376

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told y=e= House , if they wou'd not excuse him , he wou'd move his
Ma=ty= , and he hoped he wou'd ; and y=t= it would be y=e= only thing
in w=ch= y=e= King and y=e= House wou'd disagre . HATTON,I,180.055.1377

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All y=e= ministers of State seem'd much surprized , as soone as they
heard y=e= news y=t= M=r= Seymor wase chosen Speaker ;
HATTON,I,180.055.1378

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yesterday morning ther was a report y=t= his Ma=ty= wou'd not
approve of M=r= Seymor ; who , when he wase , at three in afternoone ,
presented to his Ma=ty= , he did not , according to his promise and
y=e= usuall forme of speech , desire his Ma=ty= to excuse him ; but
only said y=t= y=e= Commons , according to his Ma=ty 's= command , had
made choice of a Speaker , and did present him to his Ma=ty= in y=t=
capacity , of whom shou'd his Ma=ty= in his royall wisdome approve of ,
he wou'd endeavour , according to y=e= utmost of his abilities , to
serve him . HATTON,I,180.055.1379

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After short pause , y=e= Chancelor , who seemed surpris'd at y=e=
manner of M=r= Seymor 's speech , told him his Ma=tie= had other
services to employ him in , and therfore he cou'd not admit of him to
be Speaker , but commanded y=e= Commons to returne to their House and
make choice of another Speaker . HATTON,I,180.055.1380

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As soone as y=e= Commons were return'd , they expressed great
disatisfaction y=t= his Ma=ty= had refused to approve of y=e= Speaker
they presented to him , declaring it to be a high breach of their
priviledge and w=th=out any precident ; y=t= never any but one person
wase refused , and y=t= only by reason of a sudden sicknesse fallen on
him . HATTON,I,180.055.1381

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In their speeches they did much reflect on y=e= cheif minister of state
, as if the refusall wase advis'd by him , for y=t= , on Thursday night
, his Ma=ty= declared himself very well satisfyed w=th= y=e= choice of
M=r= Seymor , but y=e= next day refus'd him . HATTON,I,180.055.1382

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After some debate , they adjourn'd it till nine this morning , y=t=
precidents might be search'd . HATTON,I,180.055.1383

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This morning , his Ma=ty= sent to acquaint the House y=t= he wou'd
<P_I,181> give them till Tuesday morning to make choice of a Speaker .
HATTON,I,181.055.1384

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Seymor wase not in y=e= House . HATTON,I,181.055.1385

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This day S=r= Thomas Meeres and M=r= Powell were nominated ,
HATTON,I,181.055.1386

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= House seemed peremptory resolved to adhere in their choice of
M=r= Seymor , HATTON,I,181.055.1387

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but have adjourn'd y=e= debate till nine next Monday .
HATTON,I,181.055.1388

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This beginning looks ill , tho' I find many are of opinion y=t= this
storme will blow over , y=t= they will choose a third person , not S=r=
Tho. Meeres , w=th= whom they seeme much disatisfyed .
HATTON,I,181.055.1389

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But it is feard they will begine w=th= impeaching y=e= Premier Minister
d'estat , to whose advise y=e= Duke 's departure wase attributed ,
HATTON,I,181.055.1390

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therby he gain'd great applause ; HATTON,I,181.055.1391

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now y=e= high flown blades say , it wase y=e= Duke 's feares ,
least he shou'd be accus'd by y=e= L=d= Bellasis and others , made him
desirous to leave England , and y=t= y=e= letter wase only a
contrivance to disguise the true occasion of his departure ; that this
refusall of y=e= Speaker is a contrivance of y=e= L=d= T=r= to secure
himself by occasioning a rupture betwixt y=e= $King and $Parliament ,
w=ch= it is to be feared , if they proceed in thes heats , they
themselves will soudainly occasion . HATTON,I,181.055.1392

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The L=ds= in y=e= Tower have petitioned to be speedily brought to a
tryall ; as it is thought they will , if y=e= Parl=t= continue .
HATTON,I,181.055.1393

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,181.055.1394

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_055:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am my sister Hatton 's very humble servant . HATTON,I,181.055.1395

<Q_HAT_A_1679_T_WLONGUEVILLE> <L_HATTON_056> <A_WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1639> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,181>

{ED:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
11=th= of March , $1679 . HATTON,I,181.056.1396

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , The Commons have not as yet agreed what to doe in this new
started question about their Speaker . HATTON,I,181.056.1397

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The King too day , in answer <P_I,182> to their Representation <paren>
$that $'s {TEXT:that's} y=e= word now </paren> , told them that too
much time had been allready lost , and that hee wisht them to goe doe
as hee had advised them . HATTON,I,182.056.1398

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon returne from Whitehall with this his Ma=ty 's= short discourse ,
some speeches were made in that house , many old stagers inclining to
comply w=th= y=e= King 's former advise , and to wave M=r= Seymour in
order to y=e= choosing of some 3=d= person ; HATTON,I,182.056.1399

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r= Powle or S=rt= Gregory are thought of , HATTON,I,182.056.1400

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
S=r= Thomas $Moore $'s {TEXT:Moore's} unlikely . HATTON,I,182.056.1401

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , after all , and that they might sleepe upon the point , y=e=
Commons adjourned till too morrow eight a clocke .
HATTON,I,182.056.1402

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All our towne expected a prorogation , if not a dissolution , too day ,
HATTON,I,182.056.1403

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the barges of state lay out all y=e= morning ,
HATTON,I,182.056.1404

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and other directions for y=e= solemne attendance made y=e= guessers
busy . HATTON,I,182.056.1405

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r= $Langhorne was not offerd a pardon in my commission ;
HATTON,I,182.056.1406

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but my L=d= Bridgwater and Essex were with him afterwards w=th= one in
their order , HATTON,I,182.056.1407

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet have gaind no more then I did ; $y=t= $'s {TEXT:y=t='s} nothing .
HATTON,I,182.056.1408

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tom $Langhorne was at mee last night to send to your Lo=p= to come up
to meet w=th= my L=d= $Longford about his brother ,
HATTON,I,182.056.1409

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this hee said was at his brother 's desire . HATTON,I,182.056.1410

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I told him his brother sayd no such thing to me , HATTON,I,182.056.1411

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I conceivd that , tho your Lo=p= and twenty lords more should
intercede , there would bee no good done thereby in the condition the
citty and nation are in , having respect to 's popery .
HATTON,I,182.056.1412

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Savoy is this day search't and dugg into by those who are to find 2
or 3 hundred thousand pounds there , HATTON,I,182.056.1413

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the plot money men say lyes there hid . HATTON,I,182.056.1414

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= Duke is not gone as you have herd , if I am informed rightly ;
HATTON,I,182.056.1415

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but some think y=e= ministers want him againe to beare a load ,
HATTON,I,182.056.1416

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and others wish y=t= hee were recalld for y=e= nation 's satisfaction ,
who thinke him worse abroad then heere . HATTON,I,182.056.1417

<P_I,183>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your B=p= of Peterborough is reported to bee dead suddenly .
HATTON,I,183.056.1418

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sunday last a fire or two broke out in y=e= citty ;
HATTON,I,183.056.1419

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
two houses in one place were destroyed , HATTON,I,183.056.1420

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
in y=e= other only a fright . HATTON,I,183.056.1421

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How these began is y=e= quaere . HATTON,I,183.056.1422

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:40
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_056:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lo=p 's= most obliged and most faithfull serv=t= , W. L .
HATTON,I,183.056.1423

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_057> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,183>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March 18 , 1678/9 . HATTON,I,183.057.1424

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , Every howre doth here produce fresh news .
HATTON,I,183.057.1425

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will acquaint you w=th= y=e= most considerable I heare , w=ch= is ,
y=t= my L=d= Treasurer hath obtained leave of y=e= King to keepe his
staff till y=e= 26=th= inst. , and is created Marquisse Danby , and
y=t= y=e= Treasury is to be managed by commissioners , but not those I
named in my last , but y=e= L=d= Arlington , S=r= John Ernly , S=r=
Edw=d= Deering , M=r= Lawrence Hide , and M=r= Sidney Godolphin , and
Harry Guy to be secretary ; tho' many thinke y=e= House of Com. will
oppose y=t= y=e= present Treasurer shou'd name his successors , and his
freinds doe much blame him for drawing by any empty title a greater
envy on him . HATTON,I,183.057.1426

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yesterday , S=t= Gregory wase presented to his Ma=ty= as Speaker .
HATTON,I,183.057.1427

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In his speech he tooke notice y=t= he had made his excuse to y=e= House
, but they wou'd not accept thereof ; HATTON,I,183.057.1428

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he submitted himself to his Ma=ty= . HATTON,I,183.057.1429

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= L=d= Chancelor in his speech to him <paren> in answer to his
desire y=t= his Ma=ty= wou'd candidly interpret his transactions
</paren> s=d= that he might be assured y=t= what his Ma=ty= had created
by his power he wou'd protect by his kindnesse . HATTON,I,183.057.1430

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As soone as y=e= <P_I,184> Commons were withdrawn , y=e= L=d=
Shaftsbury fell very severe on my L=d= Chancelor for y=t= expression ,
HATTON,I,184.057.1431

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and s=d= it was enouf to renew y=e= late unhappy difference ,
HATTON,I,184.057.1432

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desired it might not be entred in their books .
HATTON,I,184.057.1433

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= Chancelor excused himself by alledging y=t= he wase put upon
making his speech extempory , HATTON,I,184.057.1434

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and moved y=t= neither the Speaker $'s nor his speech might $be entred
in y=e= journal , but only y=t= y=e= Speaker wase presented and
approved of by his Ma=ty= ; HATTON,I,184.057.1435

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe it wase ordred by y=e= House . HATTON,I,184.057.1436

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But my L=d= Shaftsbury fell severely on my L=d= Treasurer , taking
notice of y=e= report y=t= he wase created a Marquisse during y=e= time
he lay under an impeachm=t= from y=e= Commons of Engl=d= of being a
traitor , HATTON,I,184.057.1437

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and moved y=t= y=e= House wou'd petition his Ma=ty= not to doe such an
act as might allienat y=e= affection of his subjects .
HATTON,I,184.057.1438

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But y=e= L=d= Hallifax opposed his motion , saying his Lo=ppe= had been
impos'd on by a flamm report , HATTON,I,184.057.1439

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it wase impossible to imagine y=t= y=e= King cou'd ever be
prevailed upon to doe an act soe ungratefull to his people .
HATTON,I,184.057.1440

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is reported y=t= y=e= Duch=ss= of Portsmouth hath been wrought upon
by y=e= L=d= Rannelaugh and M=r= Seym=r= to act ag=t= y=e= Treasurer ,
y=e= L=d= Rannelaugh being $distasted ag=t= y=e= Treasurer for
designing to turn him out of his place in Irel=d= and put y=e= L=d=
Plymoth in . HATTON,I,184.057.1441

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall send y=e= wine and tobacco according to y=r= command .
HATTON,I,184.057.1442

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This day , M=r= Kingdon gives me fresh assurance he will very soudainly
supply you . HATTON,I,184.057.1443

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am my sister Hattons and y=r= Lo=pps= very humble serv=t= and most
affec=t= Brother , C. Hatton HATTON,I,184.057.1444

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_057:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duke of Yorke is gone from y=e= Hague to Brussells .
HATTON,I,184.057.1445

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_058> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,187>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July , $1679 . HATTON,I,187.058.1446

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , {ED:...} This day his Ma=ty= declared in Councill , at
Hampton Court , his resolution of dissolving this parl=t= and calling
another , y=e= 7=th= or 8=th= next . HATTON,I,187.058.1447

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From thence you will conclud , I doubt not , y=t= M=r= $Langhorne must
not expect mercy . HATTON,I,187.058.1448

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He petitioned w=th= all submission HATTON,I,187.058.1449

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made a most ample declaration of his loyalty ,
HATTON,I,187.058.1450

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , because he denyed to be conscious of y=e= plot , his petition was
rejected ; HATTON,I,187.058.1451

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wase declared that , unless he discovers y=e= plot , he must
expect noe mercy . HATTON,I,187.058.1452

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Pepys and S=r= An=w= Deane wase bailed yesterday ,
HATTON,I,187.058.1453

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , if my L=d= Ch. $Justice hang Jesuits , he will not regaine y=e=
opinion he hath therby lost w=th= y=e= populace , to court whom he will
not act ag=t= his conscience . HATTON,I,187.058.1454

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He gives you his service , HATTON,I,187.058.1455

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sath he hope you will meet him according to y=r= promise at Oxford ,
HATTON,I,187.058.1456

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he designs from thence to make Kirby in his way home ;
HATTON,I,187.058.1457

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sath he will come with all his family and retinue , and ther examine
y=e= business of y=e= swappe , HATTON,I,187.058.1458

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , unlesse you have V. and B. in y=e= country , he beleeves you will
want witnesse . HATTON,I,187.058.1459

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Whatever you doe him , he sath you will find it very difficult to
convince M=is= Anne . HATTON,I,187.058.1460

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The D. of Monmouth I expect to-morrow by y=e= Hampton coach to receive
y=e= accompts from Guernesey . HATTON,I,187.058.1461

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope wee shall get of pretty well . HATTON,I,187.058.1462

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
One of y=e= commissioners advises me to put a good face on it and take
notice of any irregularity . HATTON,I,187.058.1463

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will enquire of M=r= Ashmole when venison will be most wellcome to
him . HATTON,I,187.058.1464

<P_I,188>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have as great a rarity almost as y=e= booke he hath of D=r= Dee ,
w=ch= wase burnt ; HATTON,I,188.058.1465

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I have a letter from Penning <paren> who wase to have per annum of
my fee farm rents during his life </paren> , dated June y=e= 29=th= ,
79 , HATTON,I,188.058.1466

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am able to prove he hath been dead allmost a twelvemonth .
HATTON,I,188.058.1467

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_058:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,188.058.1468

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_059> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,188>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July 15 , $1679 . HATTON,I,188.059.1469

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , M=r= Langhorn wase yesterday executed . HATTON,I,188.059.1470

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is generally said he dyed very couragiously . HATTON,I,188.059.1471

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is most certain he did , w=th= great asseveration , declare he knew
nothing of y=e= plot . HATTON,I,188.059.1472

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He had prepared a solemn declaration of his ignorance therof ,
HATTON,I,188.059.1473

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and design'd to have read it ; HATTON,I,188.059.1474

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= sherif , as soone as he wase in y=e= sledge , demanded what
papers he had , HATTON,I,188.059.1475

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tooke y=t= from him ; HATTON,I,188.059.1476

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I heare it will soudainly be printed , HATTON,I,188.059.1477

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and by y=e= next I designe to send it you . HATTON,I,188.059.1478

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The substance of it wase y=e= same w=th= his declaration herein sent ,
w=ch= wase caused to be printed by one who wish'd better to M=r=
Langhorn 's party then y=e= Protestant religion . HATTON,I,188.059.1479

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I guesse it wase y=e= same person who told him y=t= Whitbread assented
to y=e= discovery of their lands . HATTON,I,188.059.1480

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Since y=r= Lo=ppe= went away , I have often been w=th= M=r= Langhorne .
HATTON,I,188.059.1481

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He delivered me a letter , directed to y=e= L=d= Langford and y=r=
Lo=ppe= , w=ch= I wase to deliver to w=ch= of you I saw first .
HATTON,I,188.059.1482

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have delivered it to my L=d= Langford , who told me it wase an
intimation <P_I,189> how he designed to dispose of his estate .
HATTON,I,189.059.1483

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He engaged me to assure y=r= Lo=ppe= he dyed a true honorer of y=r=
Lo=ppe= , HATTON,I,189.059.1484

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made it his request , if his son Richard escaped , you wou'd please
to entertain him as y=r= servant ; w=ch= he wou'd not doe but y=t= he
wase most confident he wou'd serve you faithfully .
HATTON,I,189.059.1485

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he desired of my L=d= Langford and y=r= Lo=ppe= y=t= all his books
, writings , and manuscripts whatsoever , might be given to his said
son Richard , if he shou'd not be condemn'd . HATTON,I,189.059.1486

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he further desired me to acquaint y=r= Lo=ppe= y=t= it wase his
earnest request y=t= y=e= last Midsummer quarter rent in Hatton Garden
might be pay'd to his brother , for y=e= maintenance of his son in
prison , and y=t= you wou'd please to order M=r= Monteage soe to pay it
; but he wou'd not have his wife nor my L=d= Langford know it . And
y=t= , as for his daughter , it wase his desire she shou'd have noe
dependence on her mother , but y=t= care might be taken to free her
from y=e= tyranny of her mother , y=t= in a few months she wou'd be of
age to choose a guardian , and y=t= he had acquainted her soe and
advis'd her to choose y=e= L=d= Langford or y=r= Lo=ppe= .
HATTON,I,189.059.1487

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_059:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,189.059.1488

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_060> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,191>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
September 2 , $1679 . HATTON,I,191.060.1489

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last night , my L=d= , about nine of y=e= clocke , his Royal Highnesse
came to S=r= Allen Appsley 's house , in St. James Square ,
HATTON,I,191.060.1490

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lay ther , HATTON,I,191.060.1491

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and early this morning went for Windsor , where he wase received by his
Ma=ty= w=th= all possible demonstrations of joy . HATTON,I,191.060.1492

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duke wase not expected here by any of his servants , as may very
probably be imagined ; HATTON,I,191.060.1493

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , after his arrivall , all their letters were countermanded from
y=e= post house . HATTON,I,191.060.1494

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said that his Ma=ty= ordred y=e= L=d= Privy Seale and L=d=
Feversham to acquaint y=e= Duke w=th= his illness , and at y=e= same
time let y=e= Duke know he neither had nor wou'd doe anything w=ch=
shou'd be injurious to him ; and y=t= his Highnesse did , immediately
upon notice of his M=tys= illnesse , take post . HATTON,I,191.060.1495

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now y=e= entertainment of y=e= town is to enquire : " Who goes for
Windsor ? " that being y=e= mesure y=e= disafected personns take to
judge how other personns stand affected . HATTON,I,191.060.1496

<P_I,192>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The personne you enquired after wase , last Saterday , in town .
HATTON,I,192.060.1497

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He came y=e= night before from Windsor , where his Ma=ty= wase very
extraordinarily favourable to him . HATTON,I,192.060.1498

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As soone as he saw him , he tooke notice to him how ill y=e= people had
used him in his absence ; HATTON,I,192.060.1499

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
" But , " s=d= he , " they have used me worse , HATTON,I,192.060.1500

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am resolv'd we will stand and fall together . "
HATTON,I,192.060.1501

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The other replyed , he hoped they shou'd stand but not fall ;
HATTON,I,192.060.1502

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for his part , he wase resolved to deport himself w=th= all y=e=
courage and loyalty befitting y=e= dignity of y=e= place his Ma=ty= had
advanc'd him to . HATTON,I,192.060.1503

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His Ma=ty= , being in bed , call'd him to y=e= bedside
HATTON,I,192.060.1504

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gave him his hand to kiss , renewing to him y=e= assurance y=t= he
wou'd stand by him . HATTON,I,192.060.1505

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wase resolv'd to have gone this weeke to Windsor againe ,
HATTON,I,192.060.1506

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I suppose he will not now make such hast . HATTON,I,192.060.1507

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad to heare of y=e= probability of seeing y=r= Lo=ppe= in
town soe soudainly . HATTON,I,192.060.1508

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wish to Heaven you had been here now , least it be interpreted y=t=
you come not to congratulate his Ma=ties= recovery but to wellcome his
Highness upon his arrivall . HATTON,I,192.060.1509

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His stay here is variously discours'd of . HATTON,I,192.060.1510

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Some say he will fix here , HATTON,I,192.060.1511

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but his own servants give out y=t= he will not stay above 8 or dayes .
HATTON,I,192.060.1512

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His Ma=tie= is very well . HATTON,I,192.060.1513

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His physitians were S=r= Alexan. Frasier , D=r= Dickeson , D=r=
Micketwait , D=r= Needam , D=r= Lower , and D=r= Yerbrow .
HATTON,I,192.060.1514

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
D=r= Micketwait is knighted ; HATTON,I,192.060.1515

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is President of y=e= Colledg , who are very much pleas'd y=t= , tho
his Ma=ty= , when he was well , seemed to slight them , yet now he wase
sick made use of none but physitians of y=e= Colledge .
HATTON,I,192.060.1516

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is reported his M=ty= got his illnesse at Portsmouth , where
severall of his attendance fell sicke , amonst y=e= rest S=r= Jonas
Moore , who , in his returne from thence , dyed in an inne on y=e= road
. HATTON,I,192.060.1517

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His son succeeds him in his place . HATTON,I,192.060.1518

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_060:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,192.060.1519

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FO_A1MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_061> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_AUNT> <A-DOB_1628?>
<R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_NIECE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,193>

{ED:THE_COUNTESS_OF_MANCHESTER_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sept. 8=th= , $1679 . HATTON,I,193.061.1520

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I was two dayes att Windsor , HATTON,I,193.061.1521

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and had the fortune to bee ther when the Duke first come .
HATTON,I,193.061.1522

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
It was a great surprise , if not to all , to y=e= greater number , the
Kinge having sent before to him not to come . HATTON,I,193.061.1523

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But he did noe question expect to finde him much worse then he found
him , HATTON,I,193.061.1524

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for y=t= daye he begane to walke about the hous . HATTON,I,193.061.1525

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ther are severall oppinions wether he will goe back or noe ;
HATTON,I,193.061.1526

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and , till the Kinge remooves from Windsor , I suppose he will not stir
. HATTON,I,193.061.1527

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
About the 15 or 16 of this moneth the Kinge speakes of Newmarkett .
HATTON,I,193.061.1528

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The docterrs are much against it , HATTON,I,193.061.1529

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and , if he goeth not thither , I beleeve will stay y=e= longer att
Windsor . HATTON,I,193.061.1530

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lady Montrose is going to morrow for Ireland . HATTON,I,193.061.1531

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She seems much pleased and willing to goe . HATTON,I,193.061.1532

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Her sister goeth w=th= her . HATTON,I,193.061.1533

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=d= of E. was not kinde to her , HATTON,I,193.061.1534

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
made y=m= pay for ther board , HATTON,I,193.061.1535

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and went the next morning after she was married away into y=e= country
, HATTON,I,193.061.1536

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and left her husband to gett her a dyner as he could .
HATTON,I,193.061.1537

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I wonder how people can doe such thinges . HATTON,I,193.061.1538

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=d= Halifax is become soe great a courtier as never is from y=e=
Kinges elbow . HATTON,I,193.061.1539

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus you see how men change their mindes upon ocasions .
HATTON,I,193.061.1540

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The D. refused S=r= Tho. Armstrong to kiss his hand ,
HATTON,I,193.061.1541

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and , $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} said , is very coole to y=e= D. of Monmouth .
HATTON,I,193.061.1542

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus I have told you all the news I know , HATTON,I,193.061.1543

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and only begg my service to your Lord , HATTON,I,193.061.1544

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:51?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_061:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine , Your affectionat Aunt and servant , A. Manchester .
HATTON,I,193.061.1545

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_062> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,194>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
September 13 , $1679 . HATTON,I,194.062.1546

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , Wee are all here in a great amazment and astonishment ;
HATTON,I,194.062.1547

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and you will be noe lesse , when you heare y=t= y=e= Duke of Monmouth
is turned out of all command and banisht y=e= 3 Kingdoms .
HATTON,I,194.062.1548

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This day he is gone to Windsor to surrender his patents .
HATTON,I,194.062.1549

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He came from thence last Thursday night late , HATTON,I,194.062.1550

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and this news yesterday morning , like gunpowder set on fire , did in
an instant run over y=e= whole city to y=e= generall amazement of all
people . HATTON,I,194.062.1551

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All y=e= phanaticks and malecontents cry up y=e= Duke of Monmouth as
y=e= great confessor for y=e= protestant religion .
HATTON,I,194.062.1552

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The best account I can receive of y=e= occasion of his banishment is ,
y=t= y=e= $Duke of $Yorke , being pressed by his M=ty= to returne into
Flanders , declared a great aversion thereto , and an absolute
unwillingnesse to leave y=e= $Duke of $Monmouth here in soe great power
and authority , HATTON,I,194.062.1553

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore , for his satisfaction , y=e= $Duke of $Monmouth wase
banisht . HATTON,I,194.062.1554

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , if y=t= be y=e= true reason , it is thought he will yet stay ,
HATTON,I,194.062.1555

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for many are of opinion y=e= $Duke of $Yorke will now stay here , tho'
some say he will certainly goe next Wednesday . HATTON,I,194.062.1556

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By y=e= next post I shall be able more satisfactory to informe you .
HATTON,I,194.062.1557

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is reported y=e= Duke of Buccs and E. of Shaftsbury will be secured
. HATTON,I,194.062.1558

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very confident you will soudainly heare very surprising news ,
HATTON,I,194.062.1559

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but what I am not able to informe you as yet . HATTON,I,194.062.1560

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther wase inserted in one of y=e= late printed Intelligence that y=e=
city had sent y=e= Recorder to welcom his Royall Highness .
HATTON,I,194.062.1561

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hereupon S=r= Tho. Player and some of his party went to expostulate
w=th= y=e= L=d= Mayor , who denyed y=t= ther ever wase any such thing ,
and y=t= he who printed y=t= intelligence wase fled ,
HATTON,I,194.062.1562

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , if he cou'd be seized , he shou'd be made exemplary .
HATTON,I,194.062.1563

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said S=r= Th. Player termed y=e= <P_I,195> Duke an enemy to $y=e=
city , and one who by y=e= Parliament had been declared soe to y=e=
whole nation , and tooke notice to y=e= L=d= Mayor that it had been
reported y=t= he shou'd have said , had his Ma=ty= dyed of his late
illnesse , he wou'd immediately have proclam'd y=e= $Duke of $York king
; w=ch= y=e= L=d= Mayor denyed , declaring he wou'd stand and fall by
y=e= protestant interest . HATTON,I,195.062.1564

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Tho. Player did likewise presse that , during y=e= Dukes stay in
England , a stronger guard of y=e= militia might be upon y=e= watch
every night , w=ch= wase referred to y=e= lieutenancy and caryed in
y=e= negative ; HATTON,I,195.062.1565

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but y=e= Lord Maior ordred y=e= constables every night to double their
watch . HATTON,I,195.062.1566

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_062:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,195.062.1567

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_063> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,196>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
September 25 , 1679 . HATTON,I,196.063.1568

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , Yesterday y=e= Duke of Monmouth went for Utrect , and this
day his Royall Highness for Flanders . HATTON,I,196.063.1569

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=e= Parl=t= is prorougu'd till y=e= of Octob=r= .
HATTON,I,196.063.1570

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To-morrow his Ma=ty= goes for Newmarket . HATTON,I,196.063.1571

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther wase a report that his Royal Highness wou'd have dined w=th= y=e=
Artillery Company , HATTON,I,196.063.1572

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he did not . HATTON,I,196.063.1573

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I find most personns doe much wonder y=e= Duke of Yorke shou'd , under
thes circumstances , return to Flanders , HATTON,I,196.063.1574

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for those who most desired it are not pleased at all w=th= it now y=t=
y=e= Duke of Monmouth is gone ; HATTON,I,196.063.1575

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but some personns , <P_I,197> and it is said y=e= most considerable ,
thinke y=t= , by y=e= Duke of York 's absence , his Ma=ties= life
<paren> w=ch= God preserve </paren> is most secure from any attempts of
y=e= Popish party . HATTON,I,197.063.1576

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is said y=e= reason of y=e= prorogation of y=e= parl=t= is in hopes
y=t= , before y=e= end of y=e= next month , a firme league may be
concluded w=th= y=e= Dutch , w=ch= is thought will be as acceptable to
y=e= English nation , as it is distastefull to y=e= French , who have ,
and still doe , w=th= great earnestness oppose it .
HATTON,I,197.063.1577

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther is a rumour y=t= y=e= Earle of Shaftsbury will be put out of
office before y=e= parl=t= meet , HATTON,I,197.063.1578

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} find y=t= it is credited by any judicious
personns . HATTON,I,197.063.1579

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This is certain , HATTON,I,197.063.1580

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
y=e= E. of Hallifax and Essex are quite lost in y=e= opinion of y=e=
men of Shaftsbury . HATTON,I,197.063.1581

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_063:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,197.063.1582

<Q_HAT_A_1679_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_064> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,203>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nov. 29 , $1679 . HATTON,I,203.064.1583

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , In my last I told y=r= Lo=ppe= that ther wase a report y=t=
y=e= Duke of Monmouth wase sicke in Holland ; HATTON,I,203.064.1584

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it wase a double mistake , HATTON,I,203.064.1585

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he wase very well then and in England . HATTON,I,203.064.1586

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For , last Thursday night , about ten a clocke , he came privatly to
Cap=n= Godfrey 's house , in Covvent Garden , HATTON,I,203.064.1587

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and stay'd ther till one y=e= next morning , HATTON,I,203.064.1588

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then he went to his owne house ; y=e= report of w=ch= wase
immediatly bruited abroad , and y=e= bells in all churches rung all
y=e= morning incessantly , and bonnefires presently kindled in severall
places , and great acclamations in all streets : HATTON,I,203.064.1589

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
" Joyful news to England , HATTON,I,203.064.1590

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
y=e= Duke of Monmouth return'd ! " HATTON,I,203.064.1591

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I say not this by hearsay from <P_I,204> others , HATTON,I,204.064.1592

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I heard those expressions HATTON,I,204.064.1593

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and saw y=e= bonnefires . HATTON,I,204.064.1594

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The truth is , it is very difficult to expresse fully y=e= prodigious
acclamations of y=e= people , HATTON,I,204.064.1595

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor can any one credit them who wase not an eye and eare witness .
HATTON,I,204.064.1596

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Last night ther wase more bonnefires , I am confident , then ever wase
on any occasion since those for y=e= restoration of his Ma=ty= .
HATTON,I,204.064.1597

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seriously protest I am most confident y=t= ther wase above betwixt
Temple Bar and Charing Cross . HATTON,I,204.064.1598

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The rabble being very numerous stopp'd all coaches , even my L=d=
Chancelor 's , HATTON,I,204.064.1599

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wou'd not let him pass till he cry'd : " God bless y=e= Duke of
Monmouth ! " HATTON,I,204.064.1600

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They made most other personns come out of their coaches and cry : " God
bless y=e= Duke of Monmouth ! " HATTON,I,204.064.1601

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And to severall personns they offer'd kennel-water ,
HATTON,I,204.064.1602

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told them they must drinke the Duke 's health in y=t= , or pay for
better liquor . HATTON,I,204.064.1603

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I mention what fires I saw , HATTON,I,204.064.1604

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am very credibly inform'd y=t= in most other streets ther wase as
many . HATTON,I,204.064.1605

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , tho' his Grace was thus triumphantly receiv'd by y=e= people , he
wase not soe at Court ; HATTON,I,204.064.1606

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , yesterday morning early , he went to wait on his Ma=ty= ,
HATTON,I,204.064.1607

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but cou'd not be admitted into his presence . HATTON,I,204.064.1608

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At eleven a clocke my L=d= Fauconbridge wase sent from his Ma=ty= to
forbid him y=e= Court , after w=ch= S=r= Stephen Fox , at y=e= desire
of y=e= Duke , went to his Ma=ty= to acquaint him y=t= y=e= Duke came
into England only to cleare himself to his Ma=ty= not to be a traytor ,
as he was attempted to be represented by y=e= pretended presbyterian
plott . HATTON,I,204.064.1609

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His Ma=ty= reply'd he wase confident y=t= y=e= Duke wase according to
his commands return'd ; if he wase not , he wou'd never see his face
more ; y=t= by the Duke 's owne acknowledgment , he had been in town
severall houres before his Ma=ty= knew of it , and he did not know but
he had been severall dayes . HATTON,I,204.064.1610

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Stephen Fox return'd w=th= this message to y=e= Duke ;
HATTON,I,204.064.1611

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he peremptory declar'd he wou'd not goe backe ; at w=ch= his Ma=ty=
wase highly displeas'd , and last night sent for all y=e= officers of
y=e= Guard and commanded them not to obey any orders they shou'd
receive from y=e= Duke of Monmouth , who is still in town , visited by
very few , except those who are <P_I,205> neerly related or depend on
him . HATTON,I,205.064.1612

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I heare not of any noblemen , except y=e= L=d= Shaftsbury and y=e= L=d=
Wharton , who were this day w=th= him at his house in Hedge Lane , as I
wase inform'd by one who saw them ther . HATTON,I,205.064.1613

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When y=e= Duke went from y=e= Hague , he wase only attended on by
Coll=n= Langly and one servant <paren> y=e= only personns who came
hither w=th= him </paren> , HATTON,I,205.064.1614

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pretended he wou'd goe for Cologn . HATTON,I,205.064.1615

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M=r= Vernon and y=e= rest of his attendants are left at y=e= Hague .
HATTON,I,205.064.1616

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_064:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= most affec=t= Brother and servant , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,205.064.1617

<Q_HAT_A_1679_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_065> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,205>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , HATTON,I,205.065.1618

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nov. 29 , $1679 . HATTON,I,205.065.1619

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I have rec=d= y=rs= of y=e= 23 , HATTON,I,205.065.1620

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and am sorry you w=d= be so ceremonious w=th= mee , when you were so
tired w=th= writing to more purposse . HATTON,I,205.065.1621

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=e= D. of Monmouth came to his lodgings at y=e= Cockpit a Thursday
night HATTON,I,205.065.1622

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<paren> but some suppose he was in town the day before </paren> .
HATTON,I,205.065.1623

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He writt to y=e= King , as sone as he came , to acquaint with his being
there and to excuse it w=th=out his leave ; because he had bine charged
in y=e= Councell to have bine in a presbyterian plot , and that he was
to head an army agst. his Ma=ty= . HATTON,I,205.065.1624

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The K=g= writt back to him he was indeed surprized at his coming , and
that he hoped no body els knew of it , and w=d= have him return
imediately w=th=out further discovery of himself .
HATTON,I,205.065.1625

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Then y=e= Duke writt againe that he came to justify himself , and that
he c=d= not return w=th= honour till he had done so ;
HATTON,I,205.065.1626

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , if his Ma=tie= pleased to send him to the Tower , or put any
other confinement upon him , he was ready to obey him and answer any
charge agst. him . HATTON,I,205.065.1627

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The K=g= then sent Capt. Godfroy , to tell him hee w=d= write no more
to expostulate w=th= him , HATTON,I,205.065.1628

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he expected to be obeyd . HATTON,I,205.065.1629

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For all this he stirrd not . HATTON,I,205.065.1630

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The next morning the King , being told he was still at y=e= Cockpit ,
sent my <P_I,206> Lord Faulconbrigg to him , to be gone ;
HATTON,I,206.065.1631

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and 2 or 3 messages passd to and againe . HATTON,I,206.065.1632

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The K=g= at last commanded him possitively to leave the Court ;
HATTON,I,206.065.1633

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so he told y=e= company w=th= him of it HATTON,I,206.065.1634

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<paren> for the roome was full all the morning </paren> ,
HATTON,I,206.065.1635

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and imediately went away to his lodgings in Hedge Lane by y=e= Mues .
HATTON,I,206.065.1636

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The King sent my Lord Mattsfield , alias Gerrard , to him in the
afternoone , to tell him out of greate tendernesse he gave him till
night to be gone ; HATTON,I,206.065.1637

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but hee stayd , HATTON,I,206.065.1638

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the bonfires were kindled againe all over this part of the towne .
HATTON,I,206.065.1639

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not w=ht= they were in y=e= citty ; HATTON,I,206.065.1640

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , y=e= night before , they were every where , HATTON,I,206.065.1641

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and began to be lighted , the bells ringing , &c. , about 1 a clock .
HATTON,I,206.065.1642

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So the K=g= , at night , sent for Coll: Russell and all the cheife
officers of y=e= Guards , hors and foot , to command them to receive no
orders from y=e= D. of M. , w=ch= as eldest Coll: before they ought to
have done . HATTON,I,206.065.1643

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus it stood y=e= last night ; HATTON,I,206.065.1644

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
only I shd. have told you that there was huge resort to his house in
Hedg lane , after he came thither , as well as to his lodgings in y=e=
Cockpit . HATTON,I,206.065.1645

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Some have phancied that y=e= K=g= knew of his coming , and all this is
but a feint ; HATTON,I,206.065.1646

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but they will find they are mistaken and y=e= K=g= is in good earnest .
HATTON,I,206.065.1647

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There has bine lately a meeting of severall Lords at y=e= Swan in Fish
Street , to consider of y=e= state of y=e= nation .
HATTON,I,206.065.1648

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare they employd one Manly , a phanaticque brewer and brother to
S=r= Roger at Portsmouth , to goe ab=t= w=th= a petition , in y=e=
citty , for subscriptions ; HATTON,I,206.065.1649

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he was every where refused , HATTON,I,206.065.1650

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so they resolve on another way by addresse . HATTON,I,206.065.1651

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am assured by those that I think are well advised , that my Lord
Mayor himself and the most considerable cittisens have given y=e= K=g=
full assurance of theyr duty to him , HATTON,I,206.065.1652

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I doe not feare but they will bee as ready as can be desired
allmost to discountenance and suppresse by theyr authority any popular
commotions , w=ch= one may not w=th=out reason be jealous of at this
time . HATTON,I,206.065.1653

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The Duke has bine mighty well rec=d= by y=e= Scots upon y=e= borders ;
HATTON,I,206.065.1654

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but , when y=e= letters came , he was not at Edingbourgh .
HATTON,I,206.065.1655

<P_I,207>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There came nobody over w=th= y=e= D. of M. but Langley , and his barber
. HATTON,I,207.065.1656

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Godfroy was heere before . HATTON,I,207.065.1657

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubt not you have heard of my L=d= Thannet 's death , and my Lady
Jane Clifford 's . HATTON,I,207.065.1658

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Jack Hervey is not like to last long after him . HATTON,I,207.065.1659

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , $it $'s {TEXT:its} now 9 at night . HATTON,I,207.065.1660

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=e= D. of Mon: is still at y=e= Mues . HATTON,I,207.065.1661

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Y=e= D=sse= has bine earnest w=th= him to submit to y=e= K=gs= pleasure
and be gone . HATTON,I,207.065.1662

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He has resolved , it seemes , by other councells .
HATTON,I,207.065.1663

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The K=g= is so offended , he sent for y=e= D. of Albemarle from New
Hall , HATTON,I,207.065.1664

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hee this night kissd the K=gs= hand , to commande y=e= troope of
Guards . HATTON,I,207.065.1665

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All his other places , $it $'s {TEXT:it's} thought , will be disposed
of . HATTON,I,207.065.1666

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse y=e= King HATTON,I,207.065.1667

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:_:1630?:49?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:47?
LETTER:HATTON_065:E3:1679:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and keepe us in peace . HATTON,I,207.065.1668

<Q_HAT_A_1680_FN_CSHATTON> <L_HATTON_066> <A_CHARLES_HATTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,216>

{ED:CHARLES_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jan. 15 , . HATTON,I,216.066.1669

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My L=d= , I wonder to heare you have not yet received y=e= puttee .
HATTON,I,216.066.1670

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent it last weeke w=th= y=e= life of M=r= Hobbs writ in verse by
himself ; HATTON,I,216.066.1671

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , being to suppe y=t= night at my brother Perrots , I writ in y=e=
morning , HATTON,I,216.066.1672

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent my letter by y=e= carier . HATTON,I,216.066.1673

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This day I have sent y=e= stockings you writ for , w=ch= , if they are
not to y=r= liking , pray return them . HATTON,I,216.066.1674

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall take care of melon seeds and Dic Beavorr vines .
HATTON,I,216.066.1675

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Hampton , last Tuesday , S=r= Gilbert Gerrard and M=r= Charlton
w=th= y=e= wooden legge , w=th= about 5 or 6 factious citizens of noe
great note , presented y=e= London and Westminster petition to his
Ma=ty= , who wou'd not permit y=e= petition to be read , telling them
he knew what it wase , and y=t= he wase y=e= head of y=e= governm=t=
and wou'd summon and dissolve parliaments as he thought fitting , or to
y=t= effect , and severely checkd S=r= Gilbert Gerrard , telling him he
did not expect one of his name wou'd have appear'd in such a business .
HATTON,I,216.066.1676

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Next Tuesday a common councell sitts , where it is expected y=e=
petition will be promoted . HATTON,I,216.066.1677

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The commission for justices of peace will soudainly be purg'd all
England over ; HATTON,I,216.066.1678

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is beginning at London and Middlesex . HATTON,I,216.066.1679

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Gilbert Gerrard , S=r= James Hayes , D=r= Chamberlain , and
severall others are expung'd . HATTON,I,216.066.1680

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yesterday y=e= roof of y=e= Tennis Cote in y=e= Haymarket fell down .
HATTON,I,216.066.1681

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Charles Sidley being ther had his skull broke ,
HATTON,I,216.066.1682

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is thought it will be mortall . HATTON,I,216.066.1683

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= George Etheridge and severall others were very dangerously hurt .
HATTON,I,216.066.1684

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Next Saterday all y=e= priests in y=e= gaoles about London will be
brought to their tryall , amonst them poore Starkey .
HATTON,I,216.066.1685

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yesterday S=r= <P_I,217> George Carteret dyed . HATTON,I,217.066.1686

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S=r= Rob=t= Payton is accused by Gadbury and M=rs= Cellier for saying ,
had y=e= King dyed at Windsor , ther were men in a readinesse to have
seized upon y=e= Tower and set up a commonwealth .
HATTON,I,217.066.1687

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The factious personns of his gange , who lately reviled him as an
infamous villain , now mightily commiserat him , as if his accusation
wase only to carry on y=e= pretended Presbiterian plot ;
HATTON,I,217.066.1688

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in truth they are in great feare S=r= Rob=t= Payton shou'd bring
them into y=e= scrappe . HATTON,I,217.066.1689

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_HATTON:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Y=r= Lo=pps= truly affec=t= Brother to serve you , C. Hatton .
HATTON,I,217.066.1690

<Q_HAT_A_1680_FO_A1MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_067> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1628?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,217>

{ED:THE_COUNTESS_OF_MANCHESTER.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Whitehall , HATTON,I,217.067.1691

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Jan. 23=th= . HATTON,I,217.067.1692

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lord , I received both your letters att Leez , and soe neare my
comeing back that made mee defere till now wrighten .
HATTON,I,217.067.1693

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
M=r= Riggby hath bine w=th= us this Christmass att Leez , wher my Lord
hath concluded w=th= him to travell w=th= my son and to goe about next
Michelmass . HATTON,I,217.067.1694

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I suppose he designes he shall stay abroad till he bee neare of agge ,
w=ch= will bee four yeare att least , if nothinge should ocasion a more
sudden returne then yet wee can foresee . HATTON,I,217.067.1695

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
As to w=t= your L=dsp= saith concerning him , he was gone that morning
towards London when I received your letter , HATTON,I,217.067.1696

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and that made me defere wrighten till I had acquainted him w=th= it ,
w=ch= I did yesterday . HATTON,I,217.067.1697

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I suppose he will returne himselfe his acknowledgm=ts= to you for your
thoughts of him , HATTON,I,217.067.1698

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I guess by his discours that he will bee unwilling to take any
liveing of noe greater value . HATTON,I,217.067.1699

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He , I suppose , was informed that Willbee was at least a yeare ,
HATTON,I,217.067.1700

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and the nebourhood of Kerby was y=e= greattes temptation ;
HATTON,I,217.067.1701

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
besides , beeing to bee abroad soe long w=th= Charles , att his returne
I hope my L=d= may have it in his <P_1,218> power to doe as well for
him , he haveing a great many very good liveings in his gifft ;
HATTON,1,218.067.1702

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and truely I find his preaching , w=ch= I never heard till this time at
Leez , and his conversation , may very reasonably deserve a good one ,
espeshallie if he performes his dutty to my son abroad , w=ch= I hope
he will . HATTON,1,218.067.1703

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
As to w=t= neues this plaice afords , tho I suppose you have it from
better hands , yet I will tell you how much pleased wee are here att
Court w=th= the citty , and that the $pettition was not received att
the Comon Councell , tho it was by a very few voices carried against .
HATTON,1,218.067.1704

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
They first declared it twas {COM:sic} legall and the right of $every
man to adress that way to the Kinge , and that a parlim=t= was very
needefull to those purposes , but that , believing it twould {COM:sic}
procure a more certane sattisfaction w=th=out , and more ready way to
have ther desiers granted . HATTON,1,218.067.1705

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wee are told here that the Dutch have absolutly refuted the French
league and will agree wth us , into w=ch= league the greattes part of
christendome are willingle to entter , to humble the Kinge of France ,
if they can , att least that he might not greatten his conquest , w=ch=
is expected he will doe next summer . HATTON,1,218.067.1706

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$'T $is {TEXT:'Tis} thought the Kinge may have given the Dutch some
privat assurance of assistance , w=ch= makes it hop'd wee may not bee
long w=th=out a parlim=t= . HATTON,1,218.067.1707

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Next Munday , beeing y=e= day for the prorogation , is impatiently
expected , to see y=e= event of peoples hopes . HATTON,1,218.067.1708

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Here is strange neues from France . HATTON,1,218.067.1709

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
A great many people of the best quality accused for $poisoning .
HATTON,1,218.067.1710

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Madame de Sowison <P_1,219> <paren> Madame Mazerine sister </paren>
hath made her escape . HATTON,1,219.067.1711

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She is said to have bine the death of her husband .
HATTON,1,219.067.1712

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Severall more w=ch= was ingaged in that first murder , to secure her
owne saffety , she hath sent after him . HATTON,1,219.067.1713

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Madam de Bullion , another sister , is secured , and a great many more
. HATTON,1,219.067.1714

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The Marechall de Luxsomberge is in y=e= Bastill , a paper under his
owne hand being found , a contract made to the divell upon three
accounts : one , never to loose the Kinge's favour ; to bee allwayes
victouris and never hurt in battall ; and allways prosperous in his
love . HATTON,1,219.067.1715

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sesak that was here , y=e= great gamester , he hath done y=e= same
thing , that he may winn allwayes att play . HATTON,1,219.067.1716

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
It makes as much discours in France as our plott doth here ,
HATTON,1,219.067.1717

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and y=e= Kinge is much concern'd ther about it . HATTON,1,219.067.1718

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I begg your L=dsp= pardon for y=e= length of this trouble ,
HATTON,1,219.067.1719

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine , Your most humble servant , A. Manchester .
HATTON,1,219.067.1720

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Since I writte , this day , about noone , M=r= Thinn , S=r= Walter St.
John , and S=r= Edward Hungerford , w=th= two or 3 orther gentlemen ,
presented the $pettitione from Wiltshiere . HATTON,1,219.067.1721

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Y=e= K. received y=m= but ruffly , HATTON,1,219.067.1722

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
asked y=m= from whens it came . HATTON,1,219.067.1723

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Beeing told , he said that , nether the grand jury nor justices hands
being to it , he wonderd gentlemen would owne anything from a rabble ;
that it twas {COM:sic} his right to call parlim=ts= when he thought it
$conveniant , and was y=e= judge of it , and should not doe it y=e=
sooner for this way ; HATTON,1,219.067.1724

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_067:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and soe left y=m= . HATTON,1,219.067.1725

<Q_HAT_A_1680_TC_CHLYTTELTON> <L_HATTON_068> <A_CHARLES_LYTTELTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1630?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_I,226>

{ED:SIR_CHARLES_LYTTELTON.}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , HATTON,I,226.068.1726

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
May 22 , . HATTON,I,226.068.1727

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My L=d= , I have y=rs= of y=e= 17 from Guernesey .
HATTON,I,226.068.1728

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I did not thinke $when wee parted I sh=d= so soone have bine sent after
you as I am like to be ; HATTON,I,226.068.1729

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the K=g= has bine pleased to tell me I shall goe to command in
Jersey in S=r= Laneere 's place , HATTON,I,226.068.1730

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Coll. Churchill has y=e= Duke 's regimt. and y=e= gov=mt= of
Sherenes ; HATTON,I,226.068.1731

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and Laneere comes in S=r= Rich=d= Dutton 's place in y=e= guards , who
is to be Gov=r= of Barbadoes . HATTON,I,226.068.1732

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This world is a vaine , transitory , uncertain thing .
HATTON,I,226.068.1733

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My comfort is , I am allmost at my journey 's end ,
HATTON,I,226.068.1734

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if this be my last stage I am not unhappy to have so honorable a
retreate to think w=ht= I have bine doing these yeares , of w=ch= I me
sure I can give but an ill account to my family , and I doubt a wors to
God Allmighty . HATTON,I,226.068.1735

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lord , I doe not expect but to find this remove much to my losse in
point of profit , HATTON,I,226.068.1736

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore did w=ht= I might to oppose it ; HATTON,I,226.068.1737

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the fates have determined otherwise , HATTON,I,226.068.1738

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I submitt , not w=th=out some sattisfaction and hopes that it may
prove to y=e= best . HATTON,I,226.068.1739

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I intend to goe as soone as I can conveniently , and to take all my
family w=th= mee . HATTON,I,226.068.1740

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope I shall see y=r= L=p= heere first ; HATTON,I,226.068.1741

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and think it very unlucky y=r= L=ps= absence , whose advise and conduct
in this affaire w=d= have bine so usefull and necessary to mee .
HATTON,I,226.068.1742

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am , my L=d= , Your humble serv=t= , C. Lyttelton .
HATTON,I,226.068.1743

AUTHOR:CHARLES_LYTTELTON:MALE:FRIEND:1630?:50?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:FRIEND:1632?:48?
LETTER:HATTON_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My humble service to all y=r= good company . HATTON,I,226.068.1744

<Q_HAT_A_1680_T_JFELL> <L_HATTON_069> <A_JOHN_FELL> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1625> <R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,227>

{ED:THE_BISHOP_OF_OXFORD_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
May 27 , . HATTON,I,227.069.1745

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Most honord Madam , As you have the satisfaction at present of being in
hourly expectation of my Lord 's arrival , I hope you will speedily
have the more real enjoyment of his personal presence , the notice
whereof will be exceedingly welcome to me . HATTON,I,227.069.1746

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your being tired with your stay in town , and your longings for the
diversions of Kirby , are particulars wherein I fear you have not many
rivalls . HATTON,I,227.069.1747

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In this world every one makes his own contentment and misfortune by the
desires w=ch= they take up and the ends w=ch= they propose to
themselves . HATTON,I,227.069.1748

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The greatest part of your sex , having fild their minds with the
gaities and entertainments of the town , would look upon a return to
the country as being thrown into a goal or the being buried alive .
HATTON,I,227.069.1749

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But your Honor , having renounct in your judgment as well as baptism
the pomps and vanities of the world , that think your family and
devotions the best employment of your time , your Lord , your children
, your own conscience , and Almighty God , the most desirable company ,
think London to be the wilderness and place of torment .
HATTON,I,227.069.1750

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And may you still retain the same apprehensions , and pass thro this
world of guilt and vanity without contracting the sulliage and
infection of it . HATTON,I,227.069.1751

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The solemnity of Whitsuntide now approaches , HATTON,I,227.069.1752

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and while other ladies fit and dress themselves to appear at court ,
the play house , or the park , you will put on the better robes of
innocence and piety , the wedding garment w=ch= may render you a guest
for the table of your God . HATTON,I,227.069.1753

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sorry to hear of your brother Hatton 's misadventure ,
HATTON,I,227.069.1754

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but London is a place where there is so ready help that $'t $is
{TEXT:'tis} to be hoped he will be soon recovered .
HATTON,I,227.069.1755

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Provost of Eton has almost finisht <P_I,228> his course at the Bath
, HATTON,I,228.069.1756

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and upon Teusday next purposes to be returning homeward .
HATTON,I,228.069.1757

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseech Almighty God to give your Honor health and mercy and blessing
, HATTON,I,228.069.1758

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , with infinit respect , remain , honord Madam , Your most
faithfull serv=t= in our Lord , Jo. Oxon . HATTON,I,228.069.1759

<Q_HAT_A_1680_T_JFELL> <L_HATTON_070> <A_JOHN_FELL> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1625> <R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,228>

{ED:THE_SAME_TO_THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
July 3 , . HATTON,I,228.070.1760

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Most honord Madam , I perceive it lies upon your mind that you are a
person remarkable for misfortunes ; HATTON,I,228.070.1761

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
therefore I pray let us consider the thing a little first , whither
your observation be truly made , and then whither it ought to be matter
of trouble to you . HATTON,I,228.070.1762

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As to the former part , I think it not evident that any thing
singularly calamitous has befaln you . HATTON,I,228.070.1763

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is very sure that you have lost several of your neerest relations
before you attaind to a full age ; HATTON,I,228.070.1764

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but surely this is no unusual thing ; HATTON,I,228.070.1765

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for children to be orphans , and of a numerous family several to dye
early , is the event of every day . HATTON,I,228.070.1766

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On the other side , to how many is it exceedingly unfortunate that
their parents have lived long , have wasted the fortunes , disgraced
the families , and debaucht the manners of their relations , so that
the life of parents and kindred is very far from being in itself a
blessing . HATTON,I,228.070.1767

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , dearest Madam , the friends which you have lost were persons of
vertue ; HATTON,I,228.070.1768

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is that the calamity that , when you had received the benefits of
education and example from them , Almighty God took them from this
miserable world to give them the rewards of eternity ?
HATTON,I,228.070.1769

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Do you envy them their happiness ? HATTON,I,228.070.1770

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Or do you count it an injury that you have not them continued here to
their infinit disadvantage , so long as it would answer your
convenience ? HATTON,I,228.070.1771

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tho your dear father lived not long after you could understand the
<P_I,229> tenderness due to that relation , it pleasd God to continue
your incomparable mother till you were not only fully instituted in all
christian duties but till you were married and put into obligations of
leaving father and mother ; HATTON,I,229.070.1772

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and indeed , if you remember well , you had , even in my most honord
ladies life time , a prospect of being calld to attend your husband at
Guernesey . HATTON,I,229.070.1773

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I pray think , HATTON,I,229.070.1774

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
had that bin the case , nay had you bin settled at Kirby and my lady
but at Easton , would you not for a great part of your time be deprived
of each other ? HATTON,I,229.070.1775

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In like manner I could reason with you concerning my dearest Lord ,
your brother . HATTON,I,229.070.1776

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But to go forward , let us consider whither the loss of friends be the
only calamity of the world . HATTON,I,229.070.1777

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What think you of poverty ; HATTON,I,229.070.1778

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what think you of sickness ; HATTON,I,229.070.1779

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what think you of being debaucht in vice ? HATTON,I,229.070.1780

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When you number your misfortunes , I pray put on the other side your
blessings and advantages , HATTON,I,229.070.1781

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and consider that whatever ill of any kind you are freed from ,
whatever blessing is continued to you , is the meer bounty and free
mercy of a gracious God . HATTON,I,229.070.1782

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whatever innocence you have that may recommend you to His favor is
itself the greatest of favors . HATTON,I,229.070.1783

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now , dearest Madam , let us consider the second point , whither ,
taking it for granted that you are this remarkably unfortunate person
which you esteem yourself , this ought to be so much resented by you .
HATTON,I,229.070.1784

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am sure , upon all the mesures which christianity teaches ,
afflictions are placed under a better character ; HATTON,I,229.070.1785

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we are told it is the mark of sonship , the sign that we are not
bastards , nay , that we are children whom the Father of spirits loves
and chastises . HATTON,I,229.070.1786

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Accordingly we are commanded to think it all joy when we fall into
diverse temtations , to rejoice and to be exceeding glad , and be
assured therefrom that great is our reward in Heaven .
HATTON,I,229.070.1787

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If you have any argument to justify your grief and trouble , I pray let
me hear it , HATTON,I,229.070.1788

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and let us debate the matter at large . HATTON,I,229.070.1789

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if upon an equal view your condition be not extraordinarily
calamitous ; that if it be $'t $is {TEXT:tis} sent by an alwise and
gracious Providence that designs it for your real and certain advantage
, I hope you will be so just to that <P_I,230> Fatherly hand , and so
just to your own interest , as with cheerfullness to acquiesce in your
condition and resolve yourself to be , as I verily believe you are ,
very happy . HATTON,I,230.070.1790

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I will not lay before you the large receits w=ch= you have had from God
's hand , of fortune , honor , understanding , education , friends ,
health , and the like ; HATTON,I,230.070.1791

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I will tell you why I think my Lady Hatton very happy .
HATTON,I,230.070.1792

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She is removed from the infectious conversation of the town , where the
precious time designed for the great purposes of eternity is to be
wasted in impertinent and uncharitable visits and unseasonable meals ;
where the estate designd for the infinit emprovements of charity is to
be wasted in gaudy furniture , expensive dressings , and ridiculous
equipags ; where the reputation , our best tresure next to innocence ,
must be in perpetual hasards , and is impossible by any care or
forecast to be preserved entire . HATTON,I,230.070.1793

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And she is also in the station where Providence has placed hir in the
country , where she has free opportunities for devotion and retirement
into hir own soul , for frugal care of the interests of hir family ,
for charities to hir poor neighbours , and retird from the stroke of
malicious tongues ; HATTON,I,230.070.1794

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with all this dares be alone , HATTON,I,230.070.1795

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
dares look into hirself , HATTON,I,230.070.1796

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and esteems a conversation with God and vertue superior to all the
frolics with men or vice . HATTON,I,230.070.1797

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My most honord Madam , cast up your accounts , HATTON,I,230.070.1798

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , when you have don so , tell me plainly whither you would change
your condition with any of the gay ladies of the age , nay , with any
one whom you know in the whole world . HATTON,I,230.070.1799

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if upon just reflection you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} pitch anywhere
to better your condition , then determine whether you ought to be
dissatisfied with that w=ch= is assigned you . HATTON,I,230.070.1800

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God Almighty bless you in all your interests and relations .
HATTON,I,230.070.1801

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I remain , honord Madam , Your most faithfull serv=t= in our Lord , Jo.
Oxon . HATTON,I,230.070.1802

AUTHOR:JOHN_FELL:MALE:_:1625:55
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall be glad to hear that my little Lord and Kitty are well at Eton
. HATTON,I,230.070.1803

<Q_HAT_A_1680_FO_A2MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_071> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_--->
<R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_COUSIN>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,239>

{ED:ANNE_MONTAGUE_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Novem. 1 , . HATTON,I,239.071.1804

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am very much obliged to you , deare Madam , that you are pleased to
be concerned for my health , which I thanke God I have very well againe
, and , for the creditt of Leezs , recoveryed it there ,
HATTON,I,239.071.1805

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or els I should not have had it in this place , HATTON,I,239.071.1806

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for much companey <P_I,240> when one is not well makes one the worse ,
HATTON,I,240.071.1807

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I never see the towne fuller . HATTON,I,240.071.1808

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
For I was to see the new play , the Spanish Frier ,
HATTON,I,240.071.1809

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and there was all the world , HATTON,I,240.071.1810

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but the Court is a letell dull yet ; HATTON,I,240.071.1811

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the Queen beeing sick , there is noe drawing roome .
HATTON,I,240.071.1812

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I believe she will see companey before her brith day .
HATTON,I,240.071.1813

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe not heare of much finnery , HATTON,I,240.071.1814

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and what I shall have will not deserve that nam ; HATTON,I,240.071.1815

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but , if it will be any devertion to your La=ps= , you shall know it .
HATTON,I,240.071.1816

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But the greatest new that is now is the death of L=d= Ogle of this new
feaver , HATTON,I,240.071.1817

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and much lamented for by all his relations and his lady extreamly .
HATTON,I,240.071.1818

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
There is great providing of her husbands , and sevearll named .
HATTON,I,240.071.1819

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She has a yeare gointer , HATTON,I,240.071.1820

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and she must give to my L=d= Newcastill for it , in those {ED:SIC}
power it is now to make his daughters great fortunes ,
HATTON,I,240.071.1821

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and thay doe stand in need of it . HATTON,I,240.071.1822

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
S=r= William Clifton was to have had one of them ,
HATTON,I,240.071.1823

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but now it is quite of , as it is with M=is= Chifings ;
HATTON,I,240.071.1824

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and she is talk of for one of S=r= William Goring $'s , which will doe
well , he beeing of her owne religion and has a good eastate .
HATTON,I,240.071.1825

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My L=d= Huntingtower and his lady is to bee in towne very sundenly .
HATTON,I,240.071.1826

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thay made her very great presents , HATTON,I,240.071.1827

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and she was extreame fine . HATTON,I,240.071.1828

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
M=r= Newport is now very sundenly to be marryed to the other sister .
HATTON,I,240.071.1829

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am very glad my cousine Anne Hatton 's ague is gone ,
HATTON,I,240.071.1830

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for it is but and ill compangione . HATTON,I,240.071.1831

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I heare her pictur extreamly comended . HATTON,I,240.071.1832

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My sister Katte presents her servis to your La=ps= .
HATTON,I,240.071.1833

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She is at present in this <P_I,241> place , HATTON,I,241.071.1834

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but goes to Leezs in a day or to . HATTON,I,241.071.1835

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I disir my servis to cousin Hatton , HATTON,I,241.071.1836

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and am very much , deare Madam , your humble sarvant , A. Mountague .
HATTON,I,241.071.1837

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The young Lady Northumberland is very ill that thay feare she will not
live long . HATTON,I,241.071.1838

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I wish your La=ps= was hear to shew your fine manto , and of your owne
work , which good husfrey I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} brage of ,
HATTON,I,241.071.1839

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but am to have one very sundenly , HATTON,I,241.071.1840

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for it is about ; HATTON,I,241.071.1841

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and it is a cheery coulerd satten embroderyed with silver thick and a
letell black , and to be lined with black villvet .
HATTON,I,241.071.1842

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_JR:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_071:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My pettcoat to it must be a rich gold and silver stufe , which thare is
the finest now that ever I see , and a brode lace at the bottom .
HATTON,I,241.071.1843

<Q_HAT_A_1680_FO_A1MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_072> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_AUNT> <A-DOB_1628?>
<R_FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_NIECE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,241>

{ED:THE_COUNTESS_OF_MANCHESTER_TO_LADY_HATTON.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
7=th= Desem. . HATTON,I,241.072.1844

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My deare Neice , I should often have writte to you , but y=t= my L=d=
Hatton tells mee he writts every post , HATTON,I,241.072.1845

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore I doubt not but by him you have all that is done heare .
HATTON,I,241.072.1846

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am very sensible you must have a very mallincolly time , espsshally
your L=d= being obliged to stay . HATTON,I,241.072.1847

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am very much obliged to him for y=e= favour of his companye ,
HATTON,I,241.072.1848

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I see him often . HATTON,I,241.072.1849

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
This last week hath bine wholy taken up w=th= y=e= tryall of my L=d=
Stafferd , w=ch= hath bine 5 dayes allready , HATTON,I,241.072.1850

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and this day being only in order to the judgm=t= made mee not soe
curious as to goe , y=e= rest I was att being concern'd to heare how
this horride <P_I,242> plott was made out , together w=th= w=t=
evidence they had against him , w=ch= was soe well prooved that I
believe not many was unsattisfied , except those that out of favour to
some of the parity might wish it orther wayes . HATTON,I,242.072.1851

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The scandall laid upon y=e= wittnesses was much taken offe ,
HATTON,I,242.072.1852

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and , untill I heare w=t= y=e= L=ds= have done , I will say noe more as
to my oppinion . HATTON,I,242.072.1853

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but looke upon it as a wonderful providence
of God Allmighty that hath discover'd this designe ,
HATTON,I,242.072.1854

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or ells our religion and liffs , for ought I know , had bine in great
danger . HATTON,I,242.072.1855

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray God deffend us yet . HATTON,I,242.072.1856

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Heare is great indeavours made by one sort of people att least to
change his sentence to banishm=t= ; HATTON,I,242.072.1857

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but most thinke y=t= $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee done by y=e= L=ds= .
HATTON,I,242.072.1858

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray God direct y=m= , HATTON,I,242.072.1859

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for it tis a very criticall time . HATTON,I,242.072.1860

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your most affectionat Aunt and servant , A. M . HATTON,I,242.072.1861

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yesterday , being Munday , when I writte the orther part , y=e= L=ds=
spent the whole day in debattinge , HATTON,I,242.072.1862

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but to day they proseeded to sentence , HATTON,I,242.072.1863

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:AUNT:1628?:52?
RECIPIENT:FRANCES_HATTON[N.YELVERTON]:FEMALE:NIECE:_:_
LETTER:HATTON_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and he was quitted by 32 and found guilty by 54 . Apon w=ch= , sentence
was given as a traytor , mittigated by y=e= Kinge to y=e= loss of his
head . HATTON,I,242.072.1864

<Q_HAT_A_1681_T_WLONGUEVILLE> <L_HATTON_073> <A_WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1639> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_II,2>

{ED:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
9 July $1681 . HATTON,II,2.073.1865

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , Yesterday the bill of enditement ag=t= Colledge was preferred
to y=e= grand jury at old Baily ; HATTON,II,2.073.1866

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Dugdale , Smith , Haynes , and Macknamara , as also S=r= W=m=
Jennings , were witnesses of his declaring a plott ag=t= y=e= King at
Oxford , and of his professing treasonable designes , &c. ; w=ch= being
heard in y=e= court , y=e= jury did afterwards catechise in private ,
HATTON,II,2.073.1867

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but on what grounds satisfyed I have not yett <P_II,3> heard ,
HATTON,II,3.073.1868

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ignoramus was found . HATTON,II,3.073.1869

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of Monmouth , Earles of Salsbury , Essex , cum aliis , M=r=
Ralph $Montagu , and such like , were all there . HATTON,II,3.073.1870

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then came y=e= point whether y=e= habeas corpus for L=ds= Shaftsbury
and Howard should bee granted , HATTON,II,3.073.1871

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y=e= judges <paren> 9 of them being there </paren> declared it
could not bee , as y=e= Tower not being within their commission of oyer
and terminer . HATTON,II,3.073.1872

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon y=e= Statute 3 Hen. 8 for correcting pannells of juryes , there
was a paper printed , as also of another statute of Hen. 4 , in Rastall
at large ; HATTON,II,3.073.1873

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y=e= judges in that could not doe ought by reason of y=e= statutes
meaning only gaole delivery , whereas y=e= jury was returned on y=e=
oyer and terminer commission . HATTON,II,3.073.1874

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is thought y=e= bills of inditement against y=e= L=ds= were not
preferred by reason of Colledge 's case . HATTON,II,3.073.1875

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= sollicitor Whitacre was committed yesterday to y=e= Tower .
HATTON,II,3.073.1876

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_073:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fitzharris his last papers were very odd ones . HATTON,II,3.073.1877

<Q_HAT_A_1681_T_WLONGUEVILLE> <L_HATTON_074> <A_WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1639> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_II,3>

{ED:THE_SAME.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
26 July $1681 . HATTON,II,3.074.1878

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , {ED:...} The joyner is like to bee tryed by a speciall
commiss=n= at Oxford , HATTON,II,3.074.1879

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after him y=e= L=ds= businesse comes on . HATTON,II,3.074.1880

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord Dorsett is upon going beyond seas , as thought y=t= hee may bee
out of y=e= way when y=e= tryals come on . HATTON,II,3.074.1881

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tom of Ten Thousand or y=e= Protestant Squire is most in talk for Lady
Ogle , by y=e= meanes of y=e= Duke 's M=r= Bret . HATTON,II,3.074.1882

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= Duke is like to returne after his parl=t= over in Scotland .
HATTON,II,3.074.1883

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= poore protestants are to bee collected for next weeke <P_II,4>
here , HATTON,II,4.074.1884

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y=e= Councill sitt oft about them , viz=t= in debate whither y=e=
King may dispense with y=e= lawes about not exercising trades whereto
they have not been prentices ; HATTON,II,4.074.1885

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
if hee does , or does not , dispense with the lawes for them without
parl=t= , what will follow ? HATTON,II,4.074.1886

{ED:...}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_074:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lops. most obedient servant , W. L . HATTON,II,4.074.1887

<Q_HAT_A_1681_FO_A1MONTAGUE> <L_HATTON_075> <A_ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1628?> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_II,5>

{ED:THE_COUNTESS_OF_MANCHESTER.}

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Whitehall , HATTON,II,5.075.1888

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Aug. 2 $1681 . HATTON,II,5.075.1889

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Haveinge recieved soe lately from my neice y=e= acount of her
miscariage I hoped the danger had bine quite over , w=ch= gave mee y=e=
greater surprise when I found by your L=dsp= letter she had bine soe
very dangerously ill . HATTON,II,5.075.1890

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She is of soe thinn and delicate a constitution , that I shall be very
impatient untill I heare y=e= hopes you give mee in the later part of
yours of her recoverie againe conferm'd . HATTON,II,5.075.1891

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray God she may live , and , in His time , bring a son into your
familly , tho I shall hope she will gaine a perfitt health before she
proove w=th= childe . HATTON,II,5.075.1892

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your L=dsp= care and kindness she hath soe often founde , that all must
be fully sattisfied nothing could bee wantinge was to be had in order
to helpe . HATTON,II,5.075.1893

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wee have lost lately soe many relations out of this family , I $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} but be frighted w=th= the least rumore of illness in
one soe very neare unto mee , and for whom I have soe tender an
affectione , w=ch= she justly merritts from mee . HATTON,II,5.075.1894

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I came w=th= my L=d= last weeke to this place , HATTON,II,5.075.1895

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and designe w=th=ing two dayes to returne to Leez .
HATTON,II,5.075.1896

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
His bisnes was to take Epsom watters , that he might not grow to fatt ,
HATTON,II,5.075.1897

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and to buy some little mourninge , made mee take this oppertunitie .
HATTON,II,5.075.1898

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The towne is very <P_II,6> unpleasent , and y=e= small pox very mortall
, besides a most dangerous feaver of w=ch= many dye in few dayes .
HATTON,II,6.075.1899

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The Prince of Orange came to Arlington house one Thursday night .
HATTON,II,6.075.1900

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The two sheriffs waitted upon him HATTON,II,6.075.1901

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and invitted him to dyner to my L=d= Mayor on Satterday , wher was a
very great enttertanem=t= designed . HATTON,II,6.075.1902

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
One Friday night my L=d= Hallifax , L=d= Hide , M=r= Semour , was w=th=
him HATTON,II,6.075.1903

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$and very much importuned him not to goe , HATTON,II,6.075.1904

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but , not saying they came from y=e= King to him , he continued
resolved to goe ; at w=ch= , M=r= Semore goeing that night to Windsor ,
the next morning the King sent y=e= Prince a letter and comand to y=e=
contraie , and that he should come to Windsor . HATTON,II,6.075.1905

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus , att ten a cloke , the Prince sent his secretarie w=th= y=e=
letter to my L=d= Mayor , HATTON,II,6.075.1906

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and soe the feast and citty ladyes in all ther glory was disapointed .
HATTON,II,6.075.1907

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He went away to Windsor ; HATTON,II,6.075.1908

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but this is all y=e= discours . HATTON,II,6.075.1909

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He goeth some time this weeke away . HATTON,II,6.075.1910

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Here is nothinge more , HATTON,II,6.075.1911

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I shall conclude this trouble by begging your L=dsp= to believe I
am , My L=d= , your faithfull servant , A. M . HATTON,II,6.075.1912

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Lady Ogle , $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} said , will certanly marrie M=r= Thinn
, if it be not allready done . HATTON,II,6.075.1913

AUTHOR:ANNE_MONTAGUE_SR:FEMALE:KIN:1628?:53?
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:KIN:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_075:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The young La: Rochester is dead suddenly of an apoplexie .
HATTON,II,6.075.1914

<Q_HAT_A_1681_T_WLONGUEVILLE> <L_HATTON_076> <A_WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1639> <R_CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1632?>

<P_II,6>

{ED:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Aug. 1681 </em> . HATTON,II,6.076.1915

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , Your asse was one of y=e= best my wife thinkes that ever shee
mett with , HATTON,II,6.076.1916

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope shee will give my Lady an account of y=e= favour in sparing
of it by all possible acknowledgm=ts= and by taking care to shew her
amendm=ts= very soone after y=e= using of this milke .
HATTON,II,6.076.1917

<P_II,7>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have beene at Putney all this day almost , HATTON,II,7.076.1918

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so want y=e= news of y=e= noone <paren> if any bee </paren> .
HATTON,II,7.076.1919

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$'T $was {TEXT:'Twas} last night agreed D=r= Oates had left Whitehall ,
HATTON,II,7.076.1920

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but whither of himselfe or turnd out some few made a doubt .
HATTON,II,7.076.1921

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Earle of Gerrard or Macclesfield was dismissed y=e= bedchamber ,
HATTON,II,7.076.1922

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but of y=e= Earle of $Manchester it is a quary as yett .
HATTON,II,7.076.1923

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= L=d= Mordaunt is restored to y=e= King 's favour .
HATTON,II,7.076.1924

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
L=d= Conway <paren> a 6 weekes widdower </paren> hath marryed againe ,
HATTON,II,7.076.1925

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} one M=rs= Stowell and , if report say true .
HATTON,II,7.076.1926

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Cockpitt hee hath taken of y=e= Earle of Danby .
HATTON,II,7.076.1927

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some 3 bills were <paren> or were like to bee </paren> found at y=e=
sessions in being , viz. against Whittaker , Rous , and y=e= foreman of
y=e= jury w=ch= would not find Colledge his bill . HATTON,II,7.076.1928

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His name I forgett ; HATTON,II,7.076.1929

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} thought y=e= pollicy herein is to render them
fitt for the London petty juries , by w=ch= Colledge w=d= scarce have
been cast . HATTON,II,7.076.1930

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y=e= poore fellow is not like to live longer then too morrow .
HATTON,II,7.076.1931

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Duke Lauderdale is ill of a feaver HATTON,II,7.076.1932

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent for D=rs= hence too day . HATTON,II,7.076.1933

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Some say Ch: Just: Pemberton is not easy in his place ; y=t= his Ma=ty=
meanes not for Newmarket ; and y=t= a speciall commission of oyer , &c.
shall bee for y=e= L=ds= indictments . HATTON,II,7.076.1934

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LONGUEVILLE:MALE:_:1639:42
RECIPIENT:CHRISTOPHER_HATTON_III:MALE:_:1632?:49?
LETTER:HATTON_076:E3:1681:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I present my wives most humble thanks and service to your Lo=p= and my
Lady and also the like from , My Lord , Your Lo=ps= ever obedient
servant , W. L . HATTON,II,7.076.1935
