<B_MORE>

<Q_MOR_C_1505_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_001> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_JOYEUCE_LEIGH> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_9>

{ED:4._TO_JOYEUCE_LEIGH.}

{ED:[London]}

{ED:[c._1_January_1505]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
Unto his ryght entyerly beloued syster in Chryst , Joyeuce Leygh ,
Thomas More gretyng in our Lorde . MORE,9.001.1

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
Hit is , and of longe tyme hath bene , my well beloued syster , a
custome in the begynnynge of the newe yere , frendes to sende betwene ,
presentes or gyftes , as the wytnesses of theyr loue and frendeshyp and
also sygnyfyenge that they desyre eche to other that yere a good
contynuance and prosperous ende of that lucky bygynnynge . MORE,9.001.2

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
But communely all those presentes , that are used customably all in
this maner betwene frendes to be sente , be suche thynges as pertayne
onely unto the body eyther to be fed , <P_10> or to be cledde or some
otherwyse delyted , by whiche hit semeth that theyr frendshyp is but
flesshely and stretcheth in maner to the body onely . MORE,10.001.3

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
But for asmoche as the loue and amyte of Chrysten folke sholde be
rather goostly frendshyp then bodely , syth that all faythfull people
are rather spyrituall then carnall . For as thapostle seyth we be not
now in flesshe but in spyryte yf Chryste abyde in us . I therfore ,
myne hertly beloued syster , in good lucke of this newe yere haue sent
you suche a present , as maye bere wytnes of my tendre loue and zele to
the happy contynuaunce and gracyouse encreace of vertue in your soule ;
MORE,10.001.4

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
and where as the giftes of other folke declare that they wyssheth theyr
frendes to be worldly fortunate , myne testyfyeth that I desyre to haue
you godly prosperous . MORE,10.001.5

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
These werkes more profitable then large were made in Laten by one Johnn
Picus Erle of Mirandula , a lordshyp in Italy of whose connynge and
vertue we nede here nothinge to speke for asmoche as here after we
peruse the course of his hole lyfe rather after our lytel power
slenderly , then after his merites suffyciently . MORE,10.001.6

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:27
RECIPIENT:JOYEUCE_LEIGH:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_001:E1:1505:COPY:OTHER
The werkes are suche , that truely , good syster , I suppose of the
quantyte there cometh none in your hande more profitable , neyther to
thachyuynge of temperaunce in prosperite , nor to the purchasynge of
pacience in aduersite , nor to the dyspysynge of worldly vanyte , nor
to the desyrynge of heuenly felycyte , whiche werkes I wolde requyre
you gladly to receyue , ne were hit that they be suche that for the
goodly mater <paren> how so euer they be translated </paren> may delyte
and please ony persone that hathe ony meane desyre and loue to God .
And that your selfe is suche one as for your vertue and feruent zele to
God can not but ioyously receyue ony thynge that meanely sowneth
eyther-3 to the reproche of vyce , commendacyon of vertue or honoure
and laude of God , who preserue you . MORE,10.001.7

<Q_MOR_A_1519_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_002> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_156>

{ED:77._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:5_July_[1519]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To My Lord Legats Grace . MORE,156.002.8

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to vndrestand , that yisternyght the
Kingis Grace commaunded me to deliuer vn to your seruaunt Foreste a
supplication put vn to his Grace by menne of Waterford in the name of
the citee , by which they complayn agaynste the towne of New Rosse in
Ireland ffor disturbyng the citie of Waterford in the vse of a certayne
graunt of prise wynys , made and confermed vn to theym , as they
allegge , by the Kyngis progenitors . Wherin the Kingis Grace
commaunded me to aduertise your Grace that he calleth to mynd that the
citie of Waterford in all such rebellions as hath happed in Ireland
hath allways byden fermely in theire allegiauns and often tymys done
very <P_157> good and faithefull seruice to the Kinge his father and
other his progenitors . For which , he saith , he bereth theym , as
your Grace well knoweth , very speciall favor . MORE,157.002.9

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace saith also that he knoweth well , and your Grace also , that
there is mych beryng agaynste theym in Ireland , and that the citie
standeth so in the daynger of the wild Irishe peple that they can not
without great ieopardie resort for the pursuit of theyre right in to
such placis of Ireland as the Lawes be ministred in . Wherfore his
Grace commaunded me to write vn to your Grace that he requyreth your
Grace that it may lyke you either in the Starre Chambre to examine the
mater of the said citee , or ellis to committe the same to the
examination of sum iustices , or other such as your Grace shall thynk
conuenient , so that they may haue expedition with such lawfull favor ,
as it may be a cumfort to theym to se that theire trew seruice is by
the Kinge and his counsaile in England considered , wherby the Kingis
grace thinketh that other cities and Lordis also in Ireland $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} encoraged vn to the lyke . MORE,157.002.10

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , if it lyke your Grace , at my retorne whan I spake with the King
, his Grace was very ioyfull , that notwithstanding your so continuall
labors in his maters <paren> in which he saied ye haue many moo than
appere to theym that see you but at Westminster or with the counsaile
</paren> your Grace is so well in helth , as he hereth by diuerse ,
MORE,157.002.11

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he saith that ye may thank his counsaile therof , by which ye leue
the often takyng of medicines , that ye were wont to vse ,
MORE,157.002.12

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and while ye so do he saith ye shall not faile of helth , which our
Lord long preserue . MORE,157.002.13

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Okyng the vth day of July . MORE,157.002.14

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your moste humble seruaunt and mooste bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,157.002.15

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_002:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis Grace . MORE,157.002.16

<Q_MOR_A_1519_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_003> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_157>

{ED:78._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:6_July_[1519]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to vndrestand that the Kingis Grace hath
commaunded me to advertise your Grace that the Embassiator of the King
of Castile hath this present Wedynesday spoken with his Grace and
declared vn to hym such newis <P_158> on the byhalfe of his maister the
King of Castile as your Grace knoweth of . For which the Kingis Grace
requyreth your Grace that there may be such lettres of gratulation
devised vn to the said King of Castell as your politique wisedome shall
thinke moost conuenient . MORE,158.003.17

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Grace hath also commaunded me to shew your Grace that
th'Embassiator hath requyred his Grace to send his advice to the King
of Castile concernyng the mater of the laste Diete , in which the great
Maister of Fraunce deceaced , in which thing th'Embassiator desireth to
haue lettres of credence of the Kingis Grace , by which he myght hym
selfe declare to his maister by mowth the Kingis advice concernyng the
premissis . MORE,158.003.18

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it the Kingis Grace thinketh hit mych better that his hole
advice be written at length by lettres devised by the prudent caste of
your Grace . MORE,158.003.19

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Grace commaunded me ferther to wrighte vn to your Grace that
among other communications had with th'Embassiator , his Grace
remembred vn to hym that he had allway been a very hartie ffrend vn to
the King of Castil , and during his life so entended to percever , and
wold of none erthely thing be more loth , than if eny occasion shold
fall <paren> which he trusted shold neuer fall </paren> wherby he
myghte be constrayned vn to the contrary , ffor the avoiding wherof ,
his Grace advised th'Embassiator that he shold in eny wise counsaile
his maister that he no thing attempte herafter that shold extend to the
breche of eny article comprised in the amitee concluded bytwen his
Grace , and the King of Castil and the French King , which if he did ,
hys Grace shold think hym selfe bounden to regard the frendship of none
erthely man so highly as his othe geven to God for the observation of
the said amite and liege . MORE,158.003.20

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Embassiator is riden fro the cort now after diner MORE,158.003.21

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I think he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} with your Grace very shortely .
MORE,158.003.22

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,158.003.23

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Okyng the vith day of July . MORE,158.003.24

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_003:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your mooste humble servaunt and mooste bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,158.003.25

<Q_MOR_A_1519_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_004> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_159>

{ED:79._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:9_July_[1519]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to vndrestand that the Kingis Grace hath
commaunded me to wryte vn to your Grace that he geveth you harty
thankis for your diligent advertisement of all such thingis as your
Grace hath written vn to hym in your latter lettres ; towching the
contentis wherof his Grace hath commaunded me to shew you that he wery
well lyketh your politique ordre taken with Hedyng the King of Castile
his Orator , which his Grace thinketh very good and honorable .
MORE,159.004.26

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as towching the overture made by my Lord of Shevers ffor the
mariage of my Lord of Devonshire the King is well content , and as me
semeth , very glad of the motion , wherin he requyreth your Grace ,
that it may lyke you to call my Lord of Devonshire to your Grace and to
advise hym secretely , to forbere eny ferther treatie of mariage with
my Lord Mountioy , for a while staying the mater , not casting hit off
, shewing hym that ther is a farre bettre offre made hym , of which the
King wold that he shold not know the specialtie byfore he speke with
his Grace . MORE,159.004.27

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching the demeanure of the Cardinall Sedunense concernyng <P_160>
the truste that the Kingis Grace did put in hym , his Grace commaunded
me to shew your Grace that he mystrusted the same hym selfe byfore ,
and that he so shewed your Grace at Richemount . MORE,160.004.28

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And though he be not glad of the Cardinallis delyng , yit is he glad ,
he saith , that your Grace may $see that he fore saw it , wherby he
thinketh your Grace will the bettre truste his coniecture hereafter .
MORE,160.004.29

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send vn to your Grace by your servaunt , this berer , certayne
wryting which the Kingis Grace commaunded me to send vn to your Grace ,
to take such ordre in the same , as your moost politique wisedom shall
thynke convenient . MORE,160.004.30

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,160.004.31

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Oking this present Saterday the ixth day of July . MORE,160.004.32

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:41
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:MORE_004:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your moost humble seruant and moste bownden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,160.004.33

<Q_MOR_A_1522_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_005> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_258>

{ED:109._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Newhall}

{ED:14_September_[1522]}

<P_259>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that this day I received
your Gracis lettres dated yisterday , and with the same vi lettres
devised by your Grace and addressed to certayn noble men of th'Emperors
army , which I do send vn to your Grace at this present tyme , signed
as your Grace commaunded . MORE,259.005.34

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your Grace ferther to be aduertised that yesterday the
Kingis Grace received a lettre fro my Lord of Shrousbery , wherof your
Grace shall perceive the contentis by the lettre selfe <P_260> which I
do send vn to your Grace with these presentis . MORE,260.005.35

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ffor as mych as the same bare date the viiith day of this present
moneth , at which tyme his Grace perceiveth no thyng done but such as
he was aduertised of byfore by lettres of my sayed Lord sent vn to his
Grace by yours ; his Grace therfore estemed the lettres the lesse ,
savyng that in as mych as hit appered by the same , that in
consideration that the Kingis ordonauns could not passe over Staynes
More towardis Carlile , hit was therfore by my said Lord and the Kingis
counsaile there thought good that my Lord with his cumpany shold
avaunce theym selfe vn to thest marchis , and there , if they myght
haue all thingis requisite , entre in to Scotland and so to proced
forward in doing the hurt that they could till such tyme as they shold
mete with the Duke in his retourne fro the west borders towardis
Edenborogh , onles they were by necessite forced to repaire to my Lord
Dacre toward Carlile for his relief . MORE,260.005.36

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it they rekened that he shold not nede , MORE,260.005.37

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he shold haue with hym vppon XX Ml. men which my Lord Steward
thought were resorted vn to hym , in convenient tyme . MORE,260.005.38

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In that point the Kingis Grace commaunded me to wryte vn to my Lord
Steward that his Grace thought great dowt therin as well for that if it
shold happen my Lord Dacre to be distressed with his cumpany , than my
Lord Steward and his cumpany myght peradventure cum over late to theyre
reliefe , as also for that his Gracis armye being so divided either of
the both partis sholde be compelled to encountre with thentier army of
his enemyes . Wherfore his Grace thought hit best that my Lord Steward
shold advaunce forth and bryng his hole army as nere to gether as he
myght in such wise as every parte agaynst theyre enemyes myght helpe
other . And than if God geve theym the victorye , after that they had
defended this land , advaunce ferther and do what dammage they could in
Scotland . MORE,260.005.39

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus mych the Kingis Grace commaunded me to wryte vn to my Lord Steward
of his opinion in that point leving $neverthelesse the finall ordre
therof to my Lord Steward and his Gracis counsaill there if theyre
wisedomys shold perceive that it were bettre for <P_261> surtie and
furtheraunce of thaffayres to pursiew theyre said devise or eny other
that shold vppon the circumstaunces considered be seene more available
. MORE,261.005.40

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching the lacke of money mencioned in my said Lordis lettre he
was answered that the Kingis Grace doughted not but by this tyme the
XMl. li was cummen to hym and knowleg also of the VI MI. VC li by your
Grace sent after , which with that that shold rise of the lone in those
parties shold be such furnitur for hym that the Kingis Grace veryly
trusteth that he was by this tyme well avaunsed forward , considering
that his Grace was sure that my Lord Steward hade geven knowlege to the
cuntre that the money was in the way commyng byfore hit cam at hym
MORE,261.005.41

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than his Grace thought his loving subgiettis wold not lett to
advaunce forward a days jorney or twayne being by hym acerteyned that
theyre money shold be paied theym ere ever they shold be farre goon on
. And specially synnys theyre avauncyng forward shold be in the defence
of theyre cuntre agaynst theyre mortall enemyes , agaynst whom somme of
those cuntrees haue bene vsed both to defend and make invasions at
theyre awne cost and charge , ffor as mych as they haue bene and yit be
for that consideration discharged of taxis and other chargis
vniuersally borne thorow the remanaunt of the realme . MORE,261.005.42

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally , the Kingis Grace caused me to write hym ferther that hit
shold be provided that vppon his aduertisement fro tyme to tyme he
shold haue money sent in tyme convenient so that he shold not nede to
stoppe or lett therfore . MORE,261.005.43

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus mych I remembre of the lettre wrytten vn to my Lord Steward which
the Kingis Grace caused me whan his Grace had redde hit to deliver it
forthwith to my said Lordis seruant tarying and incessauntly callyng
vppon hit . So that I could not wryte hit owte agayne to send your
Grace the copie , as knoweth our Lord whose grace long preserve yours
in honor and helth . MORE,261.005.44

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Newhall the xiiiith day of Septembre . MORE,261.005.45

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and dayly bounden beedman <em> Thomas More </em>
MORE,261.005.46

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_005:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good grace . MORE,261.005.47

<Q_MOR_A_1522_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_006> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_261>

{ED:110._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Newhall}

{ED:21_September_[1522]}

<P_262>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised , that yesterday in the
$mornyng I received from your Grace your honorable lettres wrytten vn
to my selfe , dated the xixth day of this present moneth and with the
same as $well the lettres of congratulation with the minute of a lettre
to be $wrytten with the Kingis awne hand to th'Emperor and
thinstructions to the Kingis Ambassador there as also those lettres
which your Grace received $from Maister Secretary , with the lettres by
your Grace also devised for the expedition of the gentleman of Spruce .
Which thyngis with $diligence I presented furthwith vn to the Kingis
Grace the same mornyng , MORE,262.006.48

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to thentent that his Grace shold the more perfaitely $perceive what
weighty thingis they were that your Grace had at that $tyme sent vnto
hym and what diligence was requisite in $thexpediting of the same , I
redde vn to his Grace the lettres which it $lyked your Grace to wryte
<P_263> to me . In which it mych lyked his Grace that your Grace so
well alowed and approved his opinion $concernyng thovertures made by
the Frenche King vn to th'Emperor . MORE,263.006.49

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After your Gracis said lettre redde , whan he saw of your Gracis awn
hand $that I shold diligently sollicite thexpedicion of those other
thingis , $for as mych as your Grace entended and gladly wold dispach
the $premissis this present Soneday , his Grace lawghed MORE,263.006.50

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saied , ' Nay by my $soul that will not be , MORE,263.006.51

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor this is my removing day sone at <em> New Hall </em> .
MORE,263.006.52

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I will rede the remanaunt at night . ' MORE,263.006.53

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whervppon after that his Grace was cummen home hither and had dyned ,
beyng vi of the clokke in the nyght , I offred myselfe agayne to his
Grace in his awne chambre , at which tyme he was content to signe the
lettres to th'Eymperor and thother lettres for $thexpedition of the
gentilman of Spreuce , putting over all the remanaunt <em> till this
</em> day in the mornyng . Whervppon at my parting from his Grace
yisternyght I received from your Grace a lettre addressed vn to his ,
with which I furthwith retorned vnto his Grace in the Quenys chambre ,
where his Grace redde openly my Lord Admirallis lettre to the Quenys
Grace , which mervelously reioiced in the good newis and specially in
that that the French Kyng shold be now toward a tutor and hys realme to
haue a governor . In the communication wherof which lasted abowt one
howre , the Kingis Grace saied that he trusted in God to be theyre
governor hym selfe , and that they shold by thys meanys make a way for
hym as King Richard did for his father . MORE,263.006.54

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray God if hit be good for his Grace and for this realme that than
it may preve so , MORE,263.006.55

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ellis in the stede therof I pray God send his Grace one honorable
and profitable peace . MORE,263.006.56

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This day in the mornyng , I redde vnto his Grace as well thinstructions
moost politiquely and moste prudently devised by your Grace and therto
moost eloquently expressed , as all the lettres of Mr. Secretary sent
vn to your Grace , to whom as well for your <P_264> spedy aduertisement
in the tone , as for your great labor and payne taken in the tother ,
his Grace geveth his moost hartie thankis . MORE,264.006.57

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the reding of thinstruction among thincommoditees that your Grace
there most prudently remembreth if th'Emperor shold leve thestat of
Myllayne vp to the French King , the Kingis Grace saied that th'Emperor
shold bysidis all those incommoditees sustayne a nother great dammage ,
that is to witt the losse of all his frendis and favorers in Italy
withowt recovery for ever $which shold be fayn to fall hooly to the
French Kyng , vttrely $dispayring that ever th'Emperor leving the
Duchie whan he had hit $wold after labor therfore whan he had lefte hit
. Which consideration his Grace wold haue planted in to thinstructions
with his awne $hand , saving that he saied your Grace could ,
MORE,264.006.58

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he requyreth you to do bettre ffurnish hit or sett hit forth .
MORE,264.006.59

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching Mr. $Secretary <em> 's </em> lettres his Grace thinketh as
your Grace moost prudently $wryteth , that they do but seke delayes
till they may se how the world $is , wherin he mych alloweth your most
prudent opinion that they shold be with good rownd wordis to theire
Embassador and $other quykke wayes prykked forth . MORE,264.006.60

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for as mych as your Grace $tocheth an ordre , that no Venicians
shold be suffred to shipp eny of $theyr goodis owt of the realme , and
that it is now shewed vn to his Grace that one Deodo a Venician is
about to shipp , $pretending hym selfe to be denison , which his
pretence whither it be trew $or not his Grace knoweth not ,
MORE,264.006.61

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also thinketh that he shall $vnder the color of his awne send owt
of the realme the goodis of $others his cuntremen , ffor which causis
his Grace requyreth yours to $haue a respect therto and cause hit to be
ordered as to your Gracis wisedom shall seme expedient .
MORE,264.006.62

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For as mych as the Kingis $Grace hath not yit written of his awne hand
the minute to $th'Emperor which I delevered his Grace in thys mornyng ,
therfore I suppose $that this lettre wrytten this present Soneday the
xxi day of Septembre $in the nyght , <P_265> can not be delevered to
the post till to morow abowt {ED:GAP}_NP , as knoweth our Lord , who
long preserve your Grace in honor and $helth . MORE,265.006.63

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moste $bounden beedman <em> Thomas More </em> .
MORE,265.006.64

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:49?
LETTER:MORE_006:E1:1522:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,265.006.65

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_007> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_275>

{ED:115._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Easthampstead}

{ED:26_August_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised , that the $Kingis
Highnes yisterday received a lettre from his $Viceadmirall , dated on
the see the xiiiith day of August ; which lettre your $Grace shall
receive with these presentis . MORE,275.007.66

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And forasmych as the $valiaunt acquitaill of Mr. Fittzwilliam and his
cumpany singularly well $contenteth the Kingis Highnes , as a thing
mich redounding to thonor of $his Grace and his realme , with high
reproch and rebuke of his $enemyes he requireth your Grace therfore ,
that as well his $Viceadmirall , as other gentilmen of his cumpany ,
such as your Grace shall $think convenient , may haue sent vn to theym
lettres of $thankis , by which they may to theyre cumfort and ferther
corage vnderstand how acceptable theire good service is vn to $his
Highnes . MORE,275.007.67

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ferthermore as towching the twoo shippis which your Grace hath devised
to be sent vn to Sir Anthony Pointtz , $albeit that Mr. Viceadmirall ,
as your Grace may perceive by his lettre , moveth iii thingis which he
thinketh wolde $be considered therin , yit sith your Grace hath had a
politique foresight to the provision of the vitail , which is the
grettest thing that his Grace regardeth , his pleasure is according to
your moost prudent advice that for to put the mater in the more surtie
, the said twoo $shippis shall in eny wise goo forth and that they
shall there continue till halfe the moneth of Septembre be passed ,
after which tyme his Grace thinketh hit good that Sir Anthony Pointtz
and his cumpany , shold be discharged , MORE,275.007.68

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor after that tyme his Grace beleveth that the Duke of Albany either
shall not goo in to Scotland , or ellis shall goo to late to do either
them good or vs hurt , MORE,275.007.69

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfore <P_276> hit semeth to his Grace good that he shold after
the myddis of this next moneth discharge hym selfe of that coste .
MORE,276.007.70

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the mean while his Highnes requireth your Grace that those shippis
may be so spedily and sufficiently vitailled for the hole tyme of
theyre abode vppon theyre entreprise there , as he dowteth not but your
Grace hath and will provide therfore , that no lacke of vitaile hyndre
or empech theire purpose . MORE,276.007.71

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may ferther lyke your good Grace to vnderstand that the Kingis
Grace mych alloweth your prudent answere made vn to th'Emperors
Embassiator vppon the saufconduicte . MORE,276.007.72

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For his Grace thinketh it a great hinderaunce to the $comen affeires
that th'Emperor shold graunt eny such saufconduicte , wherby there
shold be eny mutuall entrecors bitwen his subgiettis and theyre comen
enemyes , and the commoditees of Fraunce having vent and vtteraunce ,
MORE,276.007.73

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thenemy therby the bettre furnyshed of mony , shold be the more able
the lenger to mayntayn the warre . MORE,276.007.74

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so shall hit be the lenger ere he shall incline to eny resonable
conditions of peace . Wherfore his Grace for his part according to your
Gracis politique advice is as yit in mynd neither to ratifie that
saufconduicte , nor to graunt eny lyke , and is glad that your Grace so
shewed vn to th'Emperors embassiator . MORE,276.007.75

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may ferther lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that one Thomas
Murner , a Frere of Saynt Francisce $order , which wrote a boke agaynst
Luther in defence of the Kingis boke , was owte of Almaigne sent in to
$England by the meane of a simple person , <P_277> an Almaigne namyng
hym selfe seruant vn to the Kingis Grace and affermyng vn to Murner
that the King had gevyn hym in charge to desire Murner to cum over to
hym into $England , MORE,277.007.76

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by thoccasion therof , he is cummen over MORE,277.007.77

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hath $now bene here a good while . Wherfore the Kingis Grace
pitiyng that he was so deceived and having tendre respecte to the good
zele that he bereth toward the Feith and his good hart and mynd toward
his $Highnes , requyreth your Grace that it may lyke you to $cause hym
haue in reward one hundred pownde , $and that he may retourne home wher
his presence is $very necessary , MORE,277.007.78

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor he is one of the chiefe stays agaynst $the faction of Luther in
that parties , agaynst whom he hath wrytten many bokis in the Almayng
tong MORE,277.007.79

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now sith his cummyng hither he hath translated in to Latyn the boke
that he byfore made in Almaigne in defence of the Kingis boke .
MORE,277.007.80

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is Doctor of Divinite and of bothe Lawis and a man for wryting and
preching of great estimation in his cuntre . MORE,277.007.81

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your Grace ferther to wite that the same simple person
which caused Murner to cum in to $England is now cummen to the Cort and
hath brought with hym a barons son of Almaygne , to whom he hath also
$persuaded that the Kingis Grace wold be glad to haue hym in his
service . MORE,277.007.82

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath also brought lettres from Duke Ferdinand vn to the Kingis Grace
, which lettres I send vn to your Grace , wherin he desireth the Kingis
Highnes to take in to his service and to reteyne with some convenient
yerely pention Ducem Mechelburgensem , of which request the Kingis
Grace greatly merveileth and veryly thinketh that this simple felow
which brought the lettres , lykewise as he caused Murner to cum hither
and persuaded the barons sone that the King wold be glad to haue his
service , so hath , by some simple ways brought the Duke of
Mechelborough in the mynd that the Kingis Grace wold at the
$contemplatione of Duke Ferdinandis lettres be content to reteign the
$Duke of Mechelborough with a yerly pention . MORE,277.007.83

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The felow hath $brought also fro the Duke of Mechelborough lettres of
credence written in the Duche tong . MORE,277.007.84

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He bare hym selfe in $Almaygne for the Kingis seruant MORE,277.007.85

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bosted that he had a yerely $pention of his Grace of fiftie markis
and that the King had sent $hym thither to take vpp seruantz for
<P_278> hym . MORE,278.007.86

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now he saith he is seruant vn to th'Emperors Mageste and is going
in to Spaigne with lettres to hym MORE,278.007.87

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in dede he hath diverse lettres to his Magestie , MORE,278.007.88

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so was it easie $for hym to gete , if he entend to deceive and
mocke , as $the Kingis Grace thinketh that he doth . MORE,278.007.89

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For his Grace $never saw hym byfore , MORE,278.007.90

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he vnderstandeth now that $byfore this tym he was in England whan
th'Emperor was $here and slew a man and escaped his way . Wherfor $his
Grace requyreth yours to geve hym your prudent $advice as well in a
convenient answere to be made both-2 to $Duke Ferdinand and the Duke of
Mechelborough as also in $what wise hit $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
convenient {in}_P to ordre this simple fellow , that so hath deceived
menne in the Kingis name . MORE,278.007.91

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ferthermore hit may lyke your good Grace to vnderstand that at the
contemplation of your Gracis lettres , the Kingis Highnes is graciously
content that byside the c li for my fe , for thoffice of the Speker of
his Parleament , to be taken at the receipte of his Exchequer , I shall
haue one other hundred poundis owt to his cofres , by thandis of the
Tresorer of his Chambre , wherfor in moost humble wise I besech your
good Grace that as your graciouse favor hath obteigned hit for me so it
may lyke the same to write to Mr. Wiatt that he may deliver hit to such
as I shall send for hit , wherby I and all myne , as the manyfold
goodnes of your Grace hath all redy bound vs , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
dayly more and more bounden to pray for your Grace , whom our Lord
longe preserve in honor and helth . MORE,278.007.92

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Esthamstede the xxvith day of August . MORE,278.007.93

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,278.007.94

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_007:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,278.007.95

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_008> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_278>

{ED:116._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:1_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_008:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that according to your
Gracis commaundement , geven me by your lettres dated the xxxth day of
Auguste , I haue shewed vn to the <P_279> Kingis Grace the byll devised
for Sir Richard Wyngfeld , subscribed by your Grace , and the old bill
, also aduertisyng his Grace of such thingis as your Grace in the new
bill caused to be lefte owte for thadvantage of his Highnes , which
pointis I shewed his Grace cancelled in the old bill and omitted in the
new , ffor which his Highnes , with hartie thankis to your Grace for
your labor taken therin , hath signed the new , which I haue delivered
to hym of whom I received hit . MORE,279.008.96

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_008:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,279.008.97

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_008:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Okyng the ffyrst day of Septembre . MORE,279.008.98

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_008:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden bedeman <em> Thomas More </em>
MORE,279.008.99

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_009> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_279>

{ED:117._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:1_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue received your
Gracis lettres directed to my selfe dated the last day of Auguste with
the lettres of my Lord Admirall to your Grace sent in post and copies
of lettres sent bytwene the Quene of Scottis and his Lordishipp
concernyng the maters and affeires of Scotland with the prudent
answeris of your Grace as well to my said Lord in your awne name as in
the name of the Kingis Highnes to the said Quene of Scottis . All which
lettres and copies I haue distinctely redde vn to his Grace . Who hath
in the reding therof substancially considered as well the Quene his
sisters lettre with the lettres agaynward devised and sent by my Lord
Admirall to her and his lettres of aduertisement to your Grace as your
moost <P_280> politique devises and answeres vn to all the same among
which the lettre which your Grace devised in the name of his Highnes to
the Quene his sister his Grace so well lyked that I never saw hym lyke
thing bettre , and as helpe me God in my pore fantasie not causeles ,
MORE,280.009.100

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor hit is for the quantite one of the best made lettres for wordis ,
mater , sentence and cowching that ever I redde in my life .
MORE,280.009.101

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes in your Gracis lettre directed to my Lord Admirall marked
and well lyked that your Grace towched my said Lord and my Lord Dacres
in that that theire opinions had bene to the lett of the great roode ,
which if hit had bene ere this tyme made in to Scotland , as by your
prudent advice hit had , if theyre opinions with other had not bene to
the contrarie , hit shold as by the Quenys lettre appereth haue bene
thoccasion of some great and good effecte . MORE,280.009.102

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also well allowed that your Grace noteth not onely remisse
dealing but also some suspitione , in that the Lord Dacres so litle
estemede the mynde and opinion of the Kingis sister wherof he had by
his seruant so perfait knowledge . MORE,280.009.103

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally his Highnes is of the mynde of your Grace MORE,280.009.104

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and singularly commendeth your policie in that your Grace determineth
for a finall way that my Lord Admirall shall sett fforth his
entreprises without eny lenger tracte of tyme not ceacing to preace
theym with all the annoyaunce possible till they fall ernestely and
effectually to some bettre trayne and conformite . MORE,280.009.105

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And veryly his Highnes thinketh as your Grace writeth that for eny
lakke of those thingis , which as he wryteth are not yit cummen to hym
, he shold not haue neded to forbere to haue done theym with smaller
roodis at the leste way some annoyauns in the meane season .
MORE,280.009.106

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I redde also to his Highnes the lettre of Mr. Doctor Knyght written vn
to your Grace , with your Gracis lettre written to my selfe , by the
tenor wherof his Grace well perceiveth your moost prudent answere
devised and made , as well to his said Embassiator as to th'Embassiator
of th'Emperor , concernyng the disbursyng of such money as his Highnes
shold lay owte for thentretenement of the XMC lance $knights , wherin
$his Grace highly well approveth <P_281> as well your moost politique
$foresight so wisely dowting leste this delay of the declaration myght
happen to be a device , wherby th'Emperor myght spare his awne charge
and entreteigne th'Almaignes with thonly coste of the Kingis Grace , as
also your moost prudent ordre taken therin by which his Highnes $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} bounden to no charge excepte the Duke ffirste passe
the articles sent by Sir John Russell and that the XM Almayns be levied
and ioyned with the Duke and he declared enemy to the French King .
MORE,281.009.107

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I red , also , to his Highnes the copie of your Gracis lettre devised
to Mr. Doctor Sampson and Mr. Jernyngham ; wherin his Highnes well
perceived and marked what labor and $payne your Grace had taken as well
in substantiall aduertising his said Embassiators at length of all
occurrauntis here , with the goodly rehersall of the valiaunt acquitall
of his army on the see not onely there done but also descending on the
land with all his preparations and armyes sett forth and ffurnyshed as
well toward France as Scotland as also in your good and substantiall
instructions geven vn to theym for the semblable avauncyng of
th'Emperors army and actuall invasion to be made on that side for his
part . MORE,281.009.108

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes hath also seen and signed the lettres by your Grace devised
in his name as well to Don Ferdinando and to the Duke of Mechelberge in
answere of their late lettres sent vn to his Grace as also to the Duke
of Ferare in commendation of the Kingis orators in case the Duke
accepte the Ordre . In the reding and advising of all which thingis his
Highnes saied that he perceived well , what labor , studie , $payne and
travaile your Grace had taken in the device and pennyng of so many , so
great thingis , so high , well dispached in so briefe tyme , whan the
onely redyng therof held hym aboue twoo howris ; MORE,281.009.109

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his Highnes , therfore , commaunded me to write vn to your Grace that
for your labor , travaile , study , payne and diligens , he geveth your
Grace his moost harty and not more harty than highly welldeserved
thankis . MORE,281.009.110

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good <P_282> Grace in honor and
helth . MORE,282.009.111

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Okyng the first day of Septembre . MORE,282.009.112

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble Orator and moost bounden beedman <em> Thomas More . </em>
MORE,282.009.113

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mr. Th. More MORE,282.009.114

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
prima Septembris . MORE,282.009.115

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_009:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,282.009.116

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_010> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_282>

{ED:118._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:3_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue received your
Gracis lettre to me directed , wrytten the ii=de= day of Septembre ,
and with the same the lettres congratulatory by your Grace devised in
the Kingis name to the Duke of Venice . Which I redde vnto his Grace ,
who mych commending your substantial drawgte and ornate device therin ,
hathe signed and with his harty thankis remitted the same vn to your
Grace agayne . MORE,282.010.117

<P_283>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I redde also to his Highnes your said letters wrytten to me which his
Highnes very gladly herd and in the reding saied that your Grace was
worthy more thankis than he could geve you . MORE,283.010.118

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as towching the veneson which he sent your Grace , he was very
gladde that hit lyked your Grace so well MORE,283.010.119

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold that hit had bene mych better . MORE,283.010.120

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,283.010.121

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Oking the iii=de= day of Septembre . MORE,283.010.122

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_010:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden bedeman . Thomas $More .
MORE,283.010.123

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_011> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_283>

{ED:119._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:5_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue $received as
well your Gracis lettres written to my selfe dated the iiii=th= day of
this present moneth , as also the lettre of my Lord of Suffolke
directed vn to the Kingis Highnes , with a lettre of my Lady Margaret
vn to my said Lord . All which lettres I haue redde vn to the Kingis
Grace , whoo moost hartely thanketh yours , not onely for your spedy
aduertisement , but also for your substantiall provision for the
vitaile of his army , and your prudent advice concernyng the demurre or
marching of the same , which your politique counsaile his Grace in
every point well pondered , and the same so well lyked , that saving
for the plage reignyng at Calice and in the March of the same , wherto
your Grace hath also right especiall regard , his Highnes wold be the
lesse mynded to make haste in the removing of his army owte of his awne
pale , in to the ffrontiers of his enemyes . MORE,283.011.124

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But now the dayngeor of the plage standing $though hit were in his
towne and marches right remisse , which is as his Highnes is enformed
very fervent , yit ere his Grace wold eniubarde his peple in
thenfection therof , some what wold he rather remoue theym thense
toward theire enemyes , as your Grace in thend of your lettre for the
same cause politiquely concludeth . Wherin his Grace <P_284> requyreth
yours that my Lord of Suffolke with condigne thankis for his good
endevoir may be aduertised of his opinion and yours , so that he may
with diligence march owte of th'Englishe pale in to some more holesome
place vppon the ffrontiers of thenemy , providing that he neither
marche $fferther than $he may marche and abide surely , nor eny such
way , as thenemy therby may perceive , what place he specially
purposeth to invade , so that after the Burgonyons ioyned with theym ,
which thing he requyreth your Grace with your lettres to my Lady
Margaret in your prudent maner to accelerate , they may the lesse loked
for and therby the lesse provided for , sodaynly tourne to Boleyn ,
where our Lord send theym good spede . MORE,284.011.125

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Where hit lyketh your good Grace so thankfully to accepte my pore
devoire in doing right small part of my bounden dutie , ye shew your
accustumede goodnes MORE,284.011.126

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bynde me that that in my service lakketh , in my pore prayor to
supplie . MORE,284.011.127

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good grace in honor and helth .
MORE,284.011.128

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Oking the fifthe day of Septembre . MORE,284.011.129

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_011:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and mooste bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,284.011.130

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_012> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_284>

{ED:120._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Woking}

{ED:12_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that yester </em>
nyght late after his sowper $I presented vn to the Kingis $Grace as
well my Lord of Suffolkis lettre wrytten to your Grace with the copy of
the lord Iselstens lettre to the same and his lettre <P_285> directed
to the King , as also your Gracis lettre wrytten to my selfe dated the
xi=th= day of this present Septembre MORE,285.012.131

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as towching the consultation of the siege to be layed to Boloyn or
$abandoned , his Highnes hath commaunded me to wryte vn to your Grace
that notwithstanding the reasons of the Lord Isilsten , with the mynd
of my Lady Margarete and th'Emperor to , his Grace is for the prudent
reasons mencioned in your Gracis lettre determinately resolved to haue
the said siege experimented , wherof , as your Grace wryteth , what may
happe to fall who but God can tell . MORE,285.012.132

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And all the preparations purvayed for that way to be now sodenly sett
aside or converted where they can not serve , sendinge his army farre
of in to thenemyes land , where we shold trust to theyre provision of
whose slaknes and hard handeling profe hath bene had ere this .
MORE,285.012.133

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yit no prove had of the Dukes $fastenes , his Highnes veryly
thinketh as your Grace hath moost $prudently wrytten that there were no
wisedom therin . MORE,285.012.134

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And his Grace saith that your Grace hit the nayle on the hed where ye
$wryt that the Burgonions wold be vppon theire awne $frontiers to thend
our money shold be spent among theym $and theyre frontiers defended and
theym selfe resort to theyre $houses . MORE,285.012.135

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Howe be it </em> as towching the <em> defence of the Low Cuntrees
</em> his Grace saith that they shall not if all thingis be well ordred
on theire part so greatly nede to fere as well for the reasons
prudently mencioned in your Gracis lettre as also for that the cuntre
contributeth vn to an aide for theire awne defence wherof this cumpany
either is , or as his Grace thinketh shold be , none but of th'Emperors
charge byside , so that if the tone mater ete not vppe the tother his
Highnes saith they shold be sufficiently furnyshed for both .
MORE,285.012.136

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally his Grace for your substantiall counsaile and prudente advice
in this point his moost affectuouse thankis geving to your Grace ,
hartely requyreth the same that as well my Lord of Suffolke as the Lord
Iselsteine may be with diligence aduertised of his Gracis resolute
pleasure and yours . MORE,285.012.137

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,285.012.138

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Okyng the xii=th= day of Septembre abowte mydnyght .
MORE,285.012.139

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lettre for th'Embassiator of Venice I shall send vn to your <P_286>
$Grace , as sone as hit shall please the Kingis Highnes to take the
leysor to signe hit which I trust his Grace will do to morow .
MORE,286.012.140

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,286.012.141

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_012:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,286.012.142

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_013> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_286>

{ED:121._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Guildford}

{ED:13_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Hit may </em> lyke your good Grace to be $aduertised that I haue
received from your Grace a pacquet conteynyng as well your Gracis
lettre directed to my selfe , dated the xii=th= day of this present
Septembre , as twoo lettres of Sir John Russell , one to the Kingis
Grace , another to yours , with the copie of the lettre of Chasteau ,
seruant of Monsieur de Beaurayne , directed to th'Emperors Embassiator
here , all which I haue presented and redde vn to the Kingis Grace ,
whoo moost affectuousely thanketh your Grace for your spedy
aduertisement and specially for your studiouse consideration of the
same so diligently $declaryng by your moost prudent lettres such
thingis of waight and substaunce as to your high wisedome semed wurthy
to be notede . All which his Grace well and depely considering ,
thinketh in every point as your Grace taketh hit , that the Duke
neither coulde otherwise do than dissimule his purpose for the while ,
nor is at this day nor hereafter lykely to be in eny harty peace or
concord with the French King . MORE,286.013.143

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But all the dayngeor and harme is as your Grace well notethe that it is
lykely to be so longe ere he declare hym selfe enemye .
MORE,286.013.144

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes is glad that he is deceived in his fere that he conceived
lest the French King had $happely by some meanys somwhat perceived of
this practice . $Which his Grace now perceiveth well he doth not
MORE,286.013.145

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor if he had he wold eyther not <P_287> haue commen in his house or
not so $departed thens . MORE,287.013.146

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But his Grace greatly fereth that sith this mater is now in somwhat moo
mennys mowthis than {in}_P hit was in the bygynnyng , {TEXT:leste} hit
will not long be kepte so secrete , but $that the French King may be
well lykely to comme to the $suspicion therof , which if he shold
happen to do , the Duke $thinking the contrary , he shold not faile to
be sodaynly distressed $as his Grace thinketh , and all this conclusion
quayled ; which were to the comen affayre so great a lakke that his
Grace thinketh thestewing therof a thing right depely to be considered
and thought vppon . Wherin his Gracis opinion is , if your Grace think
hit good , that your Grace shold by your high wisedome devise some
goodly way by which Sir John Russell myght with all diligence
convenient to be vsed aduertise the Duke vn the Kingis byhalfe , that
his Grace perceiveth , that in Flaunders and other placis moo folke
know of this mater than were lykely long to kepe hit close , the
knowlege wherof the Kingis Grace fering leste by some meanys cummyng to
the French King , ere the Duke suspecte hit , myght put hym in dayngeor
and perell , hath of his tendre zele to the Dukis saufgard thougth it
necessary to aduertise hym therof , geving hym his ffrendely loving
counsaile either to declare hym selfe or at the lest wise in the mean
season to make no lesse provision for his awne saufegard and suretie
than he wold do if he were by undowted meanys acertayned that the
French King knew his purpose . MORE,287.013.147

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By some such maner aduertisement his Grace estemeth that the Duke shall
either be moved to declare hym selfe the souner or at the leste wise to
kepe hym selfe the surer . MORE,287.013.148

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And <em> thus hath </em> his Grace in this point commaunded me to wryte
<em> vn to </em> $your Grace of his opinion , remitting the ferther
consideration of the same to your high prudence . MORE,287.013.149

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace lyketh not that th'Emperor setteth on so slowly ,
MORE,287.013.150

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor he $thinketh that if th'Emperor entre in it wold geve good corage
to the Duke to declare . MORE,287.013.151

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for thintelligence that th'Emperor wryteth of to hys Embassiator
here , that he hath in Guyen with hope to attayne certayne townys
wherof he fereth the losse by strenger garnysons to be sent in to theym
, in case his army descended ere he haue theym ; the Kingis Grace saith
he hath small trust in that mater , estemyng hit an excuse of theyre
vnforwardnes . MORE,287.013.152

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,287.013.153

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Guldeforde the xiii=th= day of $Septembre late in the nyght .
MORE,287.013.154

<P_288>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes persevereth in your Gracis opinion that for eny
$sollicitation of th'Emperor or my Lady no money be debursed till the
$declaration be made . MORE,288.013.155

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I eftesonys moost humbly thanke your good Grace that hit lyked your
Grace in so goodly wise to geve thankis to the Kingis Highnes for his
bounteouse liberalite at the contemplation of your Gracis lettres vsed
vn to Mr. Tuke and me . Whom your Grace hath by your manyfold benefitis
byfore and therby newly bounden to continue your perpetuall beedmen .
MORE,288.013.156

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,288.013.157

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_013:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,288.013.158

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_014> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_288>

{ED:122._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Easthampstead}

{ED:17_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_014:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that the $Kingis Highnes
this nyght going to his souper called me to hym secretely and
commaunded me to wryte vn to your Grace that where as hit hath pleased
our Lord to call to his mercy Mr. Myrfyne , late Aldreman of London ,
his Grace very greatly desireth for the speciall favor which he bereth
toward Sir William Tyler that the same Sir William shold haue the widoo
of the said late Aldreman in mariage . For the ffurtheraunce wherof his
Highnes <P_289> considering your Gracis well approved wisedome and
dexterite in $the $acheving {TEXT:thacheving}

and bringing to good passe his vertuouse and honorable appetites
commaunded me with diligence to aduertise your Grace that his Highnes
in $moost hartie wise requyreth your Grace that hit may lyke you at the
contemplation of this his affectuouse request by your high wisedome to
devise , put in vre and pursue the moost effectuall meanys , by which
his Gracis desire may in this mater best be brought $abowt and goodly
take effecte , wherin his highnes saith that your Grace $shall do hym a
right speciall pleasure and bynd the said Sir William $duryng his life
to pray for your good Grace . MORE,289.014.160

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_014:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus mych hath his Grace in this byhalfe commaunded me to wryte to
yours whom both our Lord long preserve in honor and helth to gether .
MORE,289.014.161

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_014:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Esthamstede the xvii=th= day of Septembre . MORE,289.014.162

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_014:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More <em> . </em>
MORE,289.014.163

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_014:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,289.014.164

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_015> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_289>

{ED:123._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Abingdon}

{ED:20_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your goode Grace to be aduertised that the $Kingis Highnes
by thandis of his seruant Sir John Russell , of whose well acheved
erand his Grace taketh great pleasure , hath received your moost
prudent lettre conteignyng your wise and substantiall counsaile and
advise concernyng the siege of Boleyne to be lefte of at this present
tyme , and his army , with proclamations of libertie and forbering to
burne , to procede and marche fforwarde vn to the placis devised by the
Duke of Burbone , which $placis as your Grace vppon credible report
from all parties is enformed , shall easily be taken without eny
resistence , wherin your Grace perceiveth great apparence of wynnyng
some great part of France or at the lest wise all that is vn this side
the water of Some , which shold be as honorable and beneficiall vn to
his Grace and also more teneble than all Normandie , Gascoigne and
Guyen , requyring his Highnes therfore that your Grace myght with all
possible diligence be aduertised of his mynde and pleasure in the
premissis <P_290> to thende that ye myghte aduertise my Lord of
Suffolke of the same . MORE,290.015.165

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that it wold lyke his Grace to take in good part your foresaid
advice and opinion without $arrecting eny lightnes to your Grace though
the same were of a nother sort now than was conteyned in your late
lettres addressed vnto me , ffor as mych as this declaration of the
Duke of Burbone and his counsaile thervppon geven with the good
semblauns and groundes $and considerations therof causeth your Grace to
chaung your opinion . MORE,290.015.166

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> The Kingis Highnes also commaunded me to </em> wryte vn to your
Grace ffirst concernyng this point , that his Highnes not onely doth
not arrecte the chaunge of your Gracis opinion to eny lightnes but also
right well considereth that hit procedeth of a very constant and
vnchaungeable purpose to the fortheraunce and advauncement of his
affayres . MORE,290.015.167

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as his Highnes estemeth no thing in counsaile more perilouse than
one to persever in the mayntenaunce of his advise bycause he hath onys
geven it , so thinketh he that counsaillor very commendable , which ,
though there were no chaunge in the mater , yit forbereth not to
declare the chaunge of his awne opinion , if he either perceve or
thinke that he $perceiveth the contrary of his formar counsaile more
profitable . Wherfore in the chaunge of your Gracis opinion in this
mater his Highnes not onely seeth no maner lykelihed of lightnes but
also $perceiveth , commendeth and moost affectuousely thanketh your
faithefull diligence and high wisedome so diepely pondering and so
substantially aduertising his Highnes of such considerations as <paren>
the mater so greatly chaunged </paren> move your Grace to chaunge your
opinion and to geve your prudent advise to the chaungyng of the maner
and fashion of his affayres . MORE,290.015.168

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes hath ferther commaunded me to wryte to your Grace that as
towching the resolution of his mynd and pleasure vppon your
consultation , your Grace hath alledged so many good and substantiall
reasons on the tone part and yit those notwithstanding , some
$considerations so move hym to the tother , that his Highnes <em> hath
thought hit convenient ... hym </em> selfe first to communicate his
said considerations with your Grace to thende that those thingis by
your high wisedome well wayed and pondered , his Highnes may vppon your
ferther aduertisement take with your Gracis good advice and counsaile
such finall determination as may God willing be best and moost
conducible to the desired ende and effecte of his purposed entreprise .
MORE,290.015.169

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First his Highnes in thabandonyng of the siege and sending <P_291> his
army forward in to Fraunce , is not so mych retarded and letted in his
opinion for the hoope of the good that he thinketh could be now done at
the siege , as for the dowtis that rise vn to his Highnes of the
marching to the placis devised and in the maner mencionned .
MORE,291.015.170

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For as for the siege albe it his Grace yit despayreth not but that if
hit were experimented as late as hit is , some good myght yit with
Goddis Grace grow therof , yit hath he myche the lesse truste thervnto
for as mych as a great part and the beste parte of the tyme in which
his Highnes rekened that hit shold haue bene in doing is now and nedis
muste be by the slaknes of the Burgonyons provision passed and consumed
ere $they can bygyn . By whose onely remysse dealing , his Highnes
rekeneth the good that of that siege myght haue growen at this tyme ,
hindered , empeched and in maner loste . Wherfore the case so standing
albe it that his Grace seeth not now so myche hoope of eny great
effecte of the siege as myght haue growen if theire promises had bene
kepte , yit some considerations move hym to thinke that of the marching
forward <em> ... </em> litle profit with more charge daynger and perel
than of the siege . MORE,291.015.171

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First his Grace fyndeth the tyme of the yere as far passed for the good
to be done in the marching forward as in the lying at the siege , and
yit by reason of wete wether and roten ways rather more incommodiouse
to that feat in which they shold some tyme lye still and some tyme
march than to that feat in which they shold onely place theym selfe and
ly still . MORE,291.015.172

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Specially his Highnes thinketh that the wetenes of the cuntre vppon the
rivers side shall not suffre his army to march with artillery either
groce i nough for batery or sufficient for the feld , without which his
Grace thinketh it were a great vnsurtie to send theym thither as they
may be percase constrayned to strike bataill with a more puissaunt
hoost than is rekened on . MORE,291.015.173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace saith also Corbyn or Campien or other townys vppon the river
of Some be not so facile and easy to be taken as some men make theym
that wold gladly bryng vs fro Boleyne , or as the Burgonyons make theym
, being desirouse to bryng vs to theym . In whose report what trust
ther is , his Grace saith they made a profe the laste somer at Hesdyne
, which was in theyre mowthes very weke till they cam at hit and in
theyre Ien very strong till they gate from hit . MORE,291.015.174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if these townys happen to <P_292> prove lyke , so that withowt long
siege and great batery they will not be $wonne , than the grownd being
over softe to cary so grose <em> artillery as a full </em> batery wold
requyre , his army shall , as he saith <em> of necessite ... </em> and
not withowt perell , such townys and garnysons lefte byhynd theym as
may distresse theyre vitaill . MORE,292.015.175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And vn the tother side , if the townys be so easy to be wonne as the
Burgonyons and other make hit , than thinketh his Grace that after his
army withdrawen and discharged , they $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} as easy to
be loste , if the French King approch theym with an army riall , which
is more easy for hym to do in his awne realme than for the Kingis Grace
to rescue theym with a lyke army thorow a nother princis land , though
he be his ffrend . MORE,292.015.176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if he were otherwise , than myght his army never cumme at theym but
by force and fight ere they cum to theym . MORE,292.015.177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And his $Highnes thinketh that it were not so mych honor shortely to
wynne theym as hit wold be dishonor shortely to lese theym .
MORE,292.015.178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Where as your Grace thinketh that by the meanys of this maner of
marching with the sees well garded , Monstrell , Tyrwayn , Hesden and
Bolayne shold be secluded vttrely fro vitaill , and therby $constrayned
of necessite to rendre theym selfe either some part of this wynter or
by thentre of a mean army in to Fraunce in the bygynnyng of the next
somer , the Kingis Grace saith that he wold of this thing be moost
ioyouse if hit myght in such wise cum to passe , but his Highnes in the
lett therof dowteth twoo thingis , one that it wold be right hard for
hym to ffynd the money that shold suffise to the continuall keping of
his army so longe both by see and by londe , namely so great as
$thobteygnyng of <em> the towns should require , the other that it wold
be impossible </em> excepte the townys aforesaid were continually
besieged to withstand it ellis but that they shold allway now and than
either by land or see be revitailled considering that they be so
furneshed all redy that keping therin but thordinary or litle aboue
<paren> as they wold kepe no more withowt constreynt of a siege with
right small refreshing they shold endure righte long . </paren>
MORE,292.015.179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also mych bendeth vppon a substantiall reason alledged by
your Grace in your late lettres addressed to me , which yit semeth to
his Grace sore sownyng to the daynger and perell of his hoost in case
they shold marche fforward as is devised , that <P_293> is to witt the
dowte of their vitailling . MORE,293.015.180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For wher as your Grace right prudently answereth the dowte which ye
made byfore of thinterceptione if hit shold be convayed to other place
than Boleyn , the Duke not havyng declared hym selfe nor the French
Kingis army sent owte of his realme . Which vitaile your Grace estemeth
to {ED:OMISSION_IN_THE_ORIGINAL:mow} be now convaied fro Calais after
tharmy , sith the French Kingis puissauns is passed and the Duke
declared enemy agaynst whome namely purposyng to invade with the XMl
Almayns and his awne power , the French King $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
forced to convert all the power he can make . MORE,293.015.181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Highnes in this point fyndeth twoo difficultees ,
MORE,293.015.182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
one that sith the convaiauns of vitaill with artillery and other
thingis in the marching ferder forward muste nedis requyre dowble the
cariage that it shold nede tharmy lying at the siege still , where
fewar cartis by <em> half myght </em> soner and more saufely cum and
goo in that way shorter and lesse $dayngerous <em> , seeing the
Burgonyons with </em> all the diligent solliciting that can be made
haue not yit or scantly yit provided that cariage that were sufficient
for the siege , his Highnes sore dowteth that his army shold be right
hardly bestedde in theyre vitaill and cariage ere the Burgonyons
provided sufficiently for the residew . Wherfore his Grace thinketh if
they shold marche far , ther wold be great difficultie in the
vitailling ; MORE,293.015.183

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor our awne , he thinketh , wold not well folow so far
MORE,293.015.184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and our ffrendis how we may trust therin we haue had experiens , than
in our enemy is yit mych more vnsurtie . MORE,293.015.185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The tother difficultie that his Highnes fyndeth is this .
MORE,293.015.186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace thinketh that the French King is not vnlykely to do as his
Highnes wold hym selfe if he were in <paren> as our Lord kepe hym owte
of </paren> the lyke case . MORE,293.015.187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Than wold he appease his awne realme ere he wold invade a nother .
MORE,293.015.188

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So if the French King do <paren> as he hath of lyklyhed all redy done
</paren> revoke the puissuns of his army , being yit at the tyme of the
declaration not passing six days iorney from hym , if they were so far
, and with theym ioynyng the VMl Almayns with the CC men of armys whome
he hath with hym all redy abowt Lyons , he myght happely $invade the
Duke byfore the XMl. Almayns were ioyned with hym , or peradventure be
to strong for hym whan they were ioyned with $hym MORE,293.015.189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or ellis if he sodenly vppon the first sure knowledge of the mater <em>
unite the </em> VMl Almayns and the CC menne of armys with such other
power as he could shortely make at hand , he was not vnlykely , the
<P_294> King thinketh , to distresse the Duke ere he shold assemble
power sufficient to withstand hit . MORE,294.015.190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Than if by eny of these ways hit shold mysshappe or be by this all redy
myshapped that the Duke be oppressed , than shold the French King , as
he may easyly march in his awne realme , cum downe and convert his hole
power agaynst the Kingis army MORE,294.015.191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the same being far entred in to the bowellis of his realme he shold
haue , the Kingis Grace thinketh , good oportunite with great nombre of
his horsemen to cutt of our vitaill at our bakkis . For which causes
hit semeth to the Kingis Grace that ere ever his army shold march far
of , sith hit can neither ioyne with the Duke to make hym the strenger
, nor cum so nere as they myght releve his overthrow , if he so
myshapped , nor the French King of lykelyhed will not divide his power
but with his hole power encountre first the tone , hit were therfore ,
his Grace thinketh , expedient somewhat to perceive first how the Duke
were able hym selfe with the aid all redy geven hym to susteyn
thimpression of thenemy . MORE,294.015.192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally wher the Duke adviseth that the Kingis army shall in the
marching proclayme libertie , sparing the cuntre fro burnyng and spoile
, the Kingis Highnes thinketh that sith his army shall march in hard
wether with many sore and grevouse incommoditees , if they shold also
forbere the profite of the spoile , the bare hope $whereof , though
they gate litle , was great encoraging to theym , <em> they shall haue
</em> evill will to march far forward and theyre capitayns shall haue
mych a doo to kepe theym from crying , Home ! Home ! MORE,294.015.193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kyngis Highnes , albe it he well considereth that the yere being so
far passed , ther is no tyme to be lost , but all the celerite to be
vsed that conveniently may , yit sith his army will in the mean while
be somwhat doing , hath demed hit requisite these considerations that
move hym to signifie to your Grace , to thentent that the same by your
high prudence advised and considered , such finall determination may be
taken by his Grace and yours as shall with Goddis grace bryng his
affayres to good and honorable effecte . MORE,294.015.194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace is very glad and right hartely thanketh $yours that ye haue
provided by commaundement sent to Mr. Knyght , that <P_295> the money
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} payed owt of hand for the monethis wagis of
the XM Almayns and the remanaunt at tymes and place convenient ,
MORE,295.015.195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ellis he thinketh now for lakke of that money the conclusion myght
all quayle . MORE,295.015.196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After that his Grace had red and reformed the mynut of this present
lettre , he commaunded me to wryte vn to your Grace vn his byhalfe that
it myght lyke you to take the payne to devise a good round lettre vn to
my Lady Margaret in your awne name to styr theym forward in the
provision of such thingis as theyre slaknes hither to mych hath
hyndered the $comen affayres . MORE,295.015.197

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes saith that such dealing so often vsed and never otherwise ,
may well geve hym cause $hereafter bettre to be advised ere he entre in
to a charge agayne for theyre defence iff this be not amended .
MORE,295.015.198

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so he requyred your Grace to wryte vn to her . MORE,295.015.199

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,295.015.200

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At $Abyngdon the xx=th= day of Septembre . MORE,295.015.201

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,295.015.202

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,295.015.203

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maister More MORE,295.015.204

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_015:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
xx Septembris . MORE,295.015.205

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_016> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_295>

{ED:124._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woodstock}

{ED:22_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I have this nyght ,
after that the Kingis Grace had souped , presented and distinctely
redde vn to his Highnes as well your Gracis lettre dated the xxi=th=
day of this present Septembre addressed vn to my selfe , as the iiii
lettres of the Quene of Scottis directed twayne to the Kingis Grace and
thother twayne to my Lord of Surrey . And also the twoo lettres by your
good Grace in the Kingis name moost politiquely devised vn to the said
Quene of Scottis ffor which your labour , payne , travail , diligence ,
and study therin vsed <P_296> his Grace geveth vn to yours his moost
affectuouse thankis . MORE,296.016.206

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for as mych as in the reding of my Lord of Surreys lettre directed
vn to your Grace , the King noted that my said Lord had all redy
wrytten vn to the Quene of Scottis answer vn to both her $said lettres
, his Grace requyreth yours that it may lyke you to send hym the copies
which his lettre specifieth to haue $been sent vn to your Grace .
MORE,296.016.207

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Grace also thinketh hit right good that the Humes and Duglas be
received vppon convenient hostagis , and that as well the Chancellor as
the other Lordis mencioned in the Quenys lettre shold be attempted by
promessis , $gifts and good policie , to be wonne from the Duke and his
faction . MORE,296.016.208

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for as mych as his Grace mych desireth in these thingis to be
aduertised of your moost politique advise and counsail , which he
thinketh your Grace entendeth to declare by way of instructions to be
gevyn vn to my said Lord of Surrey , his Highnes therfore hartely
requyreth your Grace , that it may lyke the same to send vn to hym the
said instructions that his Grace may by the same be lerned of your
Gracis prudent advice and counsaile in the premissis . MORE,296.016.209

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes thinketh hit very necessary not onely that my Lord of
Surrey were in all possible haste aduertised of the declaration of the
Duke of Burbon but also that the same were insert within the lettre
which the Quene of Scottis shall shew to the Lordis with good
exaggeration of the tyranny for which he renounceth <P_297> the French
King and of the harme and ruyne that is lykely to fall to Fraunce
therby . MORE,297.016.210

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also requyreth your Grace to paise and considre the clawse
of the Quenys lettre by which she desireth with her trustie seruantis
to be received in to his realme and how your high wisedome thinketh
good that mater to be ordered or answered . MORE,297.016.211

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to thentent in all these thingis your Grace may the more
conveniently send hym your moost prudent advise he hath commaunded me
with these presentis to remitt all the said wrytingis vn to your good
Grace to be by your good Grace agayne sent vn to his Highnes with your
moost politique counsaile thervppon . MORE,297.016.212

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,297.016.213

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wrytten at Woodstok , the xxii=th= day of Septembre at mydnyght .
MORE,297.016.214

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman , <em> Thomas More . </em>
MORE,297.016.215

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,297.016.216

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Maistre More MORE,297.016.217

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_016:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
xxii=th= Septembris . MORE,297.016.218

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_017> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_297>

{ED:125._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woodstock}

{ED:24_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_017:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue this nyght
received and presented vn to the Kingis Grace as well your Gracis
lettre wrytten to my selfe dated this present day as also the copies of
my Lord of Surreis lettres wrytten to the Quene of Scottis with the
copie of your Gracis formar lettre wrytten and sent vn to my said Lord
and your lettre of new devised at this tyme to be sent , by all which
his Highnes well perceiveth not onely your Gracis high polycie in the
devising and ordering of his affeires and busynes comprised in the same
but also your mervelouse diligence and celerite in thexpedition and
<P_298> spede of the same , MORE,298.017.219

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_017:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor his Highnes seeth all such thingis as he commaunded me to put your
Grace in rememberaunce of on his byhalfe by your high diligence
anticipated and all redy done ere his Grace thought theron . Wherfore
his Highnes with moost harty thankis vn to your Grace ffor your great
labor , payne and diligence vsed therin hath signed the lettres in his
name by your Grace devised vn to his sistre the Quene of $Scottis ,
commaunding me forthwith to depech the post agayne vn to your Grace
with the same . MORE,298.017.220

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_017:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,298.017.221

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_017:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wodestok the xxiiii=th= day of Septembre . MORE,298.017.222

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_017:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman . <em> Thomas More . </em>
MORE,298.017.223

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_018> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_298>

{ED:126._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woodstock}

{ED:26_September_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue this nyght
after the Kingis Grace had souped , presented and redde vn to his
Highnes , as well your Gracis lettre wrytten vn to me dated yesterday ,
as the lettres of the Quene of Scottis wrytten to my Lord of Surrey
with the lettres of his Lordishippe as well answeryng her Grace as
advertising yours . MORE,298.018.224

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Highnes is glad that my Lord of Surrey now bygynneth
savourely to perceive that the Lordis of Scotland entend but onely to
dreve over the tyme of theyre annoyaunce MORE,298.018.225

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mych wold his Grace haue bene gladder that my Lord had savored hit
byfore , MORE,298.018.226

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor than his Grace thinketh that as well the feat that shall now be
done , or is by this done , myght haue bene long synnys done , and
peradventur mych more . MORE,298.018.227

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also <P_299> lyketh not all the beste , that my Lord of
Surrey in his lettre wrytten to the Quene , which he wold she shold
shew to the Lordis of Scottland , appointteth theym the tyme and place
where they shall send to hym , to Gedeworth . MORE,299.018.228

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For his Grace thinketh the tyme and place so certaynly knowen , it
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} a good occasion to the Scottis the more surely
to withstand his entreprise . MORE,299.018.229

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it his Grace trusteth in God hit $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} or is
by this tyme well inough . MORE,299.018.230

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes is very sory of the plage and the ferfent agues fallen in
his army to so great minishing of the same ffor the remedy and
reenforcing wherof his Highnes thinketh no thinge more profitable than
for the causes in your Gracis lettres moost prudently remembred that
the placis of theym that are departed to God , or sent bakke to Calais
to be cured , shold be MORE,299.018.231

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is he content they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} supplied with as
many horsemen of those parties . MORE,299.018.232

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therof his Grace requyreth yours that my Lord of Suffolke may be
aduertised . MORE,299.018.233

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Finally that hit lyketh your good Grace so benygnely to accepte and
take in worth my pore service and so far aboue my meritis to commende
the same in that lettre , which of myn accustumed maner your Grace
foreknew the Kingis Grace shold se , wherby his Highnes shold haue
occasion to accepte hit in lyke wise MORE,299.018.234

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so lyked your Grace in one lettre both geve me your thankis and
gete me his . MORE,299.018.235

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I were my good Lord very blynde if I perceived not , very vnkinde if
ever I forgate , of what graciouse favor it proceedeth , which I can
never otherwise reanswere than with my pore prayor , which , duryng my
life shall never faile to pray to God for the preservation of your good
Grace in honor and helth . MORE,299.018.236

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wodestoke the xxvi=th= day of Septembre . MORE,299.018.237

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman . <em> Thomas More . </em>
MORE,299.018.238

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_018:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,299.018.239

<Q_MOR_A_1523_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_019> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_299>

{ED:127._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Woodstock}

{ED:30_October_[1523]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that I haue presented and
red vnto the Kingis Grace your Gracis lettre wrytten vnto my selfe ,
dated the xxvii=th= day of this present moneth <P_300> with the lettre
of my Lord Admirall , directed vn to the Kingis Highnes , dated at
Newcastell the xxiiii=th= day of this moneth . And twoo copies of your
Gracis lettres one answeryng the said lettre of my Lord Admirall the
tother addressed vn to my Lord of Suffolke , which lettres for as much
as his Highnes well considered by your high wisedome so singularly well
devised , that excepte his onely thankis vn to your Grace for your
labor , payn and study for the same , which his Highnes in his moost
harty maner geveth vn to your Grace , ther requyred no ferther
aduertisement , he being than redy to ride , deferred thanswere of the
same vn till the morow at his cummyng to Woodstok , at which he thought
he shold peradventure receive some new lettres , as he hath in dede .
MORE,300.019.240

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For this day cam the post with your Gracis lettre wrytten vn to me ,
dated the xxix=th= day of this present moneth with the lettre of my
Lord of Suffolke , dated in the campe at Camppyen , with diverse other
lettres and copies conteyned in the same pacquet , all which I remitt
vn to your good Grace agayne with these presentis . After the receipte
wherof forthwith this nyght , I redde all the same distinctely to his
Highnes , wherby he perceived not onely the goodly victory that his
army hath had agaynst the enemyes at Ancre and Bray , and wynnyng the
passage over the water of $Somme , with fre entre in to the bowellis of
Fraunce withowt apparence of eny great resistence with $demonstration
and good lyklyhed of thatteynyng of his auncient right and title to the
corone of France to his singulare comfort and eternall honor , but also
the mervelouse diligence and inestimable industrie of your good Grace
by your high polycy , labor , travaile and study not onely providing
for the reenforcement of his said army , being by siknes , deth and
otherwise diminished and enfebled , but also for the sufficient
furniture as well of money as other necessaryes for the same , which
saving for your high prudens and polytique provision his Highnes wold
not well haue thought fesible wherfor his Highnes ffor your accustumed
fervent zele and goodnes geveth {ED:DEFICIT_PAGINA} MORE,300.019.241

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
passed the Kingis high and great maters , so mych depending vppon his
honor , suretie and reputation on all parties , being in soo good
trayne with such apparence of notable effecte to ensue , <P_301> that
hit myght please his highnes to resort vn to some place and there
estableshe hym selfe , where your Grace myght conveniently haue often
recourse and repaire to the same for the bettre fortheraunce and
avauncement of his affaires , which as your Grace moost prudently
wryteth , may be more perfitely communicate and more spedely set forth
by groundely consultation in presence , than by lettres in absence ,
MORE,301.019.242

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his Highnes ensuyng the moost prudent aduertisement of your Grace ,
proceding of speciall tendre zele to the fortheraunce of his affaires ,
entendeth as sone as he shall haue herd of the good and prosperous ende
of his affeires agaynst Scotland , which , God willyng , he trusteth
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} shortely , than forthwith to repaire to
Wyndesore and ther to demurre vn till his Grace and yours deliver and
determyne ferther . Whom both our Lord send well and shortely to gether
and long preserve you both-5 in helth and mych honor . MORE,301.019.243

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Woodstoke the Fryday byfore All Hallowen Evyn . MORE,301.019.244

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,301.019.245

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:45
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:MORE_019:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,301.019.246

<Q_MOR_A_1524_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_020> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_311>

{ED:136._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Hertford}

{ED:29_November_[1524]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be aduertised that $yisternyght at my
cummyng vn to the Kingis Gracis presence , after that I had made your
Gracis recommendations and his Highnes shewed hym selfe $very greatly
glad and ioyfull of your Gracis helthe ; MORE,311.020.247

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as I was abowte to declare ferther to his Grace what lettres I had
brought , his Highnes perceiving lettres in my hand prevented me ere I
could bygyne MORE,311.020.248

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saied , ' Ah ! ye haue <P312> lettres nowe by Johne Joachym and I
trow sum resolution what they will do . ' MORE,311.020.249

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Nay veryly , Sir ' , quoth I , ' my Lord hath yit no word by Johne
$Joachim MORE,311.020.250

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor John Joachim , as far as my Lord knew , had yit no $word hym selfe
this day in the mornyng whan I departed from his Grace . '
MORE,311.020.251

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' No had ? ' quoth he , MORE,311.020.252

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' I mych mervaile therof MORE,311.020.253

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for John Joachim had a seruaunt come to hym two dayes agoo . '
MORE,311.020.254

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Sir , ' quoth I , ' if hit lyke your Grace this mornyng my $Lordis
Grace had no thing herd therof , MORE,311.020.255

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor yisterday his Grace at afternone dispeched me to your Grace with a
lettre $sent from Mr. Doctor Knyght MORE,311.020.256

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the same nyght late his Grace sent a seruant of his to myn howse
MORE,311.020.257

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and commaunded me to be with his Grace this mornyng by eight of the
clokke , where at my cummyng he delivered me these other lettres and
aduertisementis sent vn to hym fro Mr. Pace , $commaunding me that
after that your Highnes had seene theym , I shold remitte theym to hym
with diligence , as well for that he wold shew theym to other of your
Gracis Counsaile as also to John Joachym , MORE,311.020.258

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the contentis be such as will do hym litle pleasure . '
MORE,311.020.259

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Mary , ' quoth his Grace , ' I am well a paied therof . '
MORE,311.020.260

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so he fell in meryly to the redyng of the lettres of Maister Pace
and all the other abstractis and wrytingis , wherof the contentis as
highly contented hym as eny tidingis that I haue sene cum to hym ,
MORE,311.020.261

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thanked your Grace moost hartely for your good and spedy
aduertisement ; MORE,311.020.262

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and furthwithe he declared the newes and every materiall point , which
vppon the reding his Grace well noted vn to the Quenys Grace and all
other abowt hym who were mervelouse glad to here it . MORE,311.020.263

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Quenys Grace saied that she was glad that the Spanyerdis had
yit done somwhat in Italy in recompence of their departure owt of
Province . MORE,311.020.264

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shewed his Highnes that your Grace thought that the French <P_313>
King passed the mountaignys in hope to wynne all with a visage in Italy
and to fynd there no resistence and his sodayne cummyng vppon mych
abashed the cuntrees putting eche quarter in dowt of other and owt of
suertie who myght be well trusted , MORE,313.020.265

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but now sith he fyndeth it otherwise , myssyng the helpe of money ,
which he hoped to haue had in Mylleyne , fyndyng his enemyes strong and
the fortressis well manned and furnyshed and at Pavia , by
thexpugnation wherof he thought to put all the remanaunt in fere and
drede , being now twyes reiected with losse and reproche , his
estimation shall so decay and his frendis fail , his enemyes confermed
and encoraged , namely , such aide of th'Almaignes of new ioynyng with
theym , that lyke as the French King byfore wrote and bosted vn to his
mother that he had of his awne mynd passed in to Italy , so is it lykly
that she shall haue shortly cause to wryte agayn to hym that it had to
be mych bettre and more wisedome for hym to abide at home than to put
hym selfe there where as he standeth in great parell whither ever he
shall gete thense . MORE,313.020.266

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Grace lawghed MORE,313.020.267

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and said that he thinketh it $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} very hard for hym
to gete thense , and that he thinketh the maters going thus the Popis
Holynes will not be hasty neither-2 in peace nor treuix .
MORE,313.020.268

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vppon the redyng of Mr. Knyghtis lettre his Grace saied not mych , but
that if Bewreyne cum to his Grace he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} playne with
hym . MORE,313.020.269

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if he do not , but take $his dispache there of your Grace , which
thyng I perceive his Highnes wold be well content he did , excepte he
$desire to cum to his presence , his Grace requyreth yours so to talke
with hym as he may know that his Grace and yours well perceive how the
maters be handeled by th'Emperors agentis in thentreprise .
MORE,313.020.270

<P_314>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Kingis Grace is very glad that the maters of Scotland be in so good
trayne MORE,314.020.271

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold be loth that they were now ruffled by th'Erle of Angwishe
MORE,314.020.272

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mych his Highnes alloweth the mooste prudent mynde of your Grace
myndyng to use th'Erle of Angwish for an instrument to wryng and wreste
the maters in to bettre trayne if they walke a wrye , and not to
wrestle with theym and breke theym whan they goo right .
MORE,314.020.273

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your Grace also to be aduertisede that I moved his Grace
concernyng the suit of Mr. Broke in such wise as your Grace declared vn
to me your pleasure , whan Mr. Broke and I were with your Grace on
Soneday . MORE,314.020.274

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And his Grace answered me that he wold take a breth therin , and that
he wold fyrst onys speke with the yong man MORE,314.020.275

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than his Grace departed , MORE,314.020.276

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I perceived by his Grace that he had taken the yong mannys promise
not to mary without his advise , bycause his Grace entended to mary hym
to some one of the Quenys maidens . MORE,314.020.277

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Iff it wold lyke your good Grace in eny lettre which it shold please
your Grace here after to write hither , to make some mention and
rememberaunce of that mater , I trust it wold take good effecte .
MORE,314.020.278

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,314.020.279

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Hertford the xxix=th= day of Novembre . MORE,314.020.280

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Gracis humble orator and moost bounden beedman Thomas More .
MORE,314.020.281

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:46
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:MORE_020:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,314.020.282

<Q_MOR_A_1525_T_TWOLSEY> <L_MORE_021> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_THOMAS_MORE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1478>

<P_321>

{ED:141._FROM_WOLSEY.}

{ED:[c._October_1525]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Moore , I commende me hartely vnto you , and right ioiesly
MORE,321.021.283

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and glad I am to vnderstonde , howe most consolingely , and with what
reuerence , humilite and devocion the Kingis Highnes receyved the holy
Jubile , to the gret merite , as I trust in God , <P_322> of his Grace
, and to the most holy , religiouse and honorable example , comfort and
reioyse aswel of al those that wer present at the beholding and doing
therof , as to al other his subgettis . MORE,322.021.284

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And semblably glad I am that his Grace , like a most kind and gracious
prince and master , tendering moore the helth of his seruauntis ,
officers and ministres thenne his owne priuate and particuler profit ,
is contented by your good mediation , to adiourne the terme , which
vndowtedly is not oonly to the comfort of al such as shuld attende
therat , but also the Kingis Grace haue goten therby many prayers ,
gret and most humble thankis $for the same . MORE,322.021.285

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ther shal noo losse nor hindraunce to his affayres ensue therby .
MORE,322.021.286

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shal also aduertise the Kingis Grace , howe Monsieur John Joachim
hath been with me , and communicate such newes as be wryten vnto the
President and him in cyphres sent owt of Fraunce , wherby doth appere
that , by reason of th'Emperors high demaundis , the French Kingis
deliueraunce is not like to be soo sone as the President reaported vnto
the King at his being here , MORE,322.021.287

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:52?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:47
LETTER:MORE_021:E1:1525:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for nowe th'Emperor , perceyving that the French King is owt of parel
of deth , and perfitely recouered , requireth the hol Duchie of Burgon
, the same to be holden of th'Empire , all Picardye , and other placis
on this side the water of Somme , with disharge . MORE,322.021.288

<Q_MOR_A_1526_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_022> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_368>

{ED:145._TO_WOLSEY.}

{ED:Stony_Stratford}

{ED:21_September_[1526]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be advertised that I haue presented and
redde vn to the Kingis Grace your honorable lettres directed vn to my
selfe and written the xviith day of Septembre , wherby his Highnesse
very greatly reioyced the valiaunt acquytaill and prosperouse successe
of th'Erlis of Anguysh and Arren agaynst theire enemyes and the
disturbours of the peace <P_369> and quiet of Scotland , dayly devising
such entreprises as shold , if they mought haue obtayned theire entent
and purpose , haue extended in conclusion to the great parell and
iubardy of the yong Prince his nephieu , not without sum busignes and
inquietenes also to this realme . Wherfore his Highnes mych approveth
your Gracis moost prudent device concernyng the said Erlis to be
entreteyned with sum good lettres and pleasuris frome his Grace with
good advise and counsaile to be geven vn to theym for such good ,
vertuouse and politique ordre to be taken and vsed by theym for the
good bringing vppe of the yong King , to the weale and suertie of his
noble persone and commodite of his realme , that he and his realme may
herafter be glad and dayly more and more delite and reioice in theire
late good chaunce and victorie agaynst theym that late were assembled
agaynst theire King present in the feld ; MORE,369.022.289

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Kingis Highnes thinketh that sith the said Erlis haue now
sufficient open profe that the Archebishoppe of Saynt Andrewis putteth
all his possible power to procure theire destruction and to rere
broilerie , warre and revolution in the realme , to the no litle perell
of the yong King theire maister , it were good that they were advised
in this theire victorie so substantially to provide for the saufgard of
their King and theym selfe by theffectuall repressing of theire
adversaries , that the said Archebishoppe and his adherentis in eny
tyme to cum shold not be able either by craftie practises <P_370> to
deceive theym , or open rebellion to distresse theym , but without eny
trust or credence to be geven to the blandishing of the said
Archbishoppe which this adverse chaunce shall peradventure dreve hym to
vse for the while with purpose and entent of revenging whan he may
fynde occasion , MORE,370.022.290

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they provide and se so substantiall ordre taken for the surtie of the
King , the realme and theym self that none evil wede haue power to
spring vppe to high . MORE,370.022.291

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus mych the Kingis Highnes hath commaunded me to wright vn to
your good Grace concernyng this mater , geving to your Grace his moost
affectuouse thankis for your diligent aduertisement of those good
tidingis with your labor taken in the lettre by your Grace devised in
his name to the Chauncellor of Poile . MORE,370.022.292

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes also thinketh that it were neither-1 honorable to his Grace
nor to the French King that th'Emperors Embassiator shold be deteigned
in Fraunce , MORE,370.022.293

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it semeth to me that the Kingis Grace somwhat dowteth whither he be
there deteigned agaynst his will or not , MORE,370.022.294

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but his Grace greatly alloweth and thanketh yours in the solliciting of
his enlarging . MORE,370.022.295

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I remitt vn to your Grace the lettres of Mr. Magnus and Sir Christofer
Dacre , MORE,370.022.296

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shall in lyke wise send vn to your Grace the lettre to the
Chauncellor of Poile as sone as the Kingis Grace shall haue signed it .
As knoweth our Lord whose goodnes long preserve your good Grace in
prosperouse helth and honor . MORE,370.022.297

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Stony Stratford the xxi day of Septembre . MORE,370.022.298

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
LETTER:MORE_022:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Gracis humble orator and moost bounden bedeman . Thomas More .
MORE,370.022.299

<Q_MOR_A_1526_T_TWOLSEY> <L_MORE_023> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_THOMAS_MORE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1478>

<P_370>

{ED:146._FROM_[WOLSEY].}

{ED:[September-October_1526]}

<P_371>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
LETTER:MORE_023:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master More . Forasmoche as in thys my letter be conteynyd maters of
gret importance , requysyte to be maturely consyderyd and ponderyd , I
therefor pray yow hertyly so to take your tyme that ye may dystyncly
rede the same to the Kyngis Hyhnes . MORE,371.023.300

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
LETTER:MORE_023:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as to the lettres of consolation to the Popys Holynes I trust I
haue so cowschd and qualyfyd them that they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to
the satysfaccion of the Popys Holynes and such other as shall here and
rede the same , without byndyng the Kyng to any thyng that my+gth
redownde to hys charge or pardon odre . MORE,371.023.301

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
LETTER:MORE_023:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus hertyly fare ye well . MORE,371.023.302

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
LETTER:MORE_023:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Reverse - MORE,371.023.303

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:53?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:48
LETTER:MORE_023:E1:1526:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Send to Mr. More . MORE,371.023.304

<Q_MOR_A_1528_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_024> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1473?>

<P_388>

{ED:161._TO_WOLSEY}

{ED:Windsor}

{ED:16_march_[1528]}

<P_389>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your good Grace to be advertised that yisternyghte the
Kingis Highnes commaunded me to advertise your Grace that his servaunt
Michael the Geldrois delivered hym a lettre from Monsieur de Iselsteyne
which his Grace hath sent <P_390> vn to yours in such maner cowched
that it semeth to his Highnes to have proceded not without thadvice of
my Lady Margarete and the Counsaile there . MORE,390.024.305

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for as mych as the lettre mencioned credence to be geven to the
bringer in the declaring of the same he shewed vn to his Highnes vn the
byhalfe of Monsieur d'Eselsteyne that my Lady and all the Counsaile
there , and among other hym selfe especially were very sory for this
warre intimated vn to th'Emperor and mervelouse loth and hevy wold be
that eny warre shold arise bytwene theym . And that it were to great
pitie and a thyng highly declaring our Lord sore displeased with
Christen peple if the thre gretteste princis of Christendom cummyng to
so nere pointis of peace and concord shold in so nere hope and
expectatione of peace sodaynly fall at warre , beseching the Kingis
Highnes graciously to percever in his godly mynde and appetite of peace
, and how so ever it shold happe to fall bytwene hym and Spayne , yit
to considre his auncient amite and to continue his good and graciouse
favor toward Flaundres and those Lowe Cuntrees which of all folke
living lotheste wolde be to have eny enemyte with his $Grace or his
peple . Adding thervnto , that if his Highnes had of his high wisedome
eny convenient meanys by whiche his Grace thought that the peace myght
yit be trayned and cum to good point that thing knowen he wold not
dowte to cum over hym selfe to his Grace with sufficient authorite to
conclude hit . Whervn to the Kingis Grace answered that no creature
living , prince nor pore man , was more lothe to haue cummen to the
warre than he , nor that more labor and travaile had taken in his mynde
to conduce the peace , which he had vndowtedly brought to passe , if
with th'Emperor either resonable respecte of his awne honor , profite
and suertie or eny regard of the comen weale of Christendome <P_391>
myght haue taken place . MORE,391.024.306

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And sith hit was without his fawte and agaynst his mynde cummen to this
point now , his Grace muste and wold with other his frendis and helpe
of God defende his and theire good cause and the comen state of
Christendome agaynste such as by theire immoderate sore dealing shew
theym selfe vttrely sett vppon a purpose to putte all in theire awne
subiection . MORE,391.024.307

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that as towchyng the Lowe Cuntreis he had for the old frendeshippe
and amite such favor to theym that , as it hath well appered by his
actis synnys thintimation , he hath not bene hasty to do theym harme
nor at the leste wise to breke eny clause of theire old entrecourse
albeit every clause had not bene kepte toward hym . Wherin his Grace
said that sumwhat thei had now bygon to loke vn to and he dowted not
but more they wold for their honor . MORE,391.024.308

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as Monsieur d'Eselstayne vppon the hoope hadde of eny good
wais of peace offred hym selfe to cum over with sufficient authorite ,
his Grace saied , that both for his great wisedome and good zele toward
peace and old frendely mynde toward his Grace of long tyme well knowen
, and for thacquayntaunce bytwene theym with the favor that his Grace
hath for his well deserving meritis long borne vn to hym , no man shold
be to his Grace more wellcum , nor none could there cum thense to whom
his Grace could fynd in his hart more largely to declare his mynde . In
which he had conceived such thingis that he dowted not , if he cam over
with sufficient authorite from th'Emperor , either he shold conclude
the peace or playnely perceive and confesse hym selfe that th'Emperors
immoderate $hardness shold be the onely lett and defawte .
MORE,391.024.309

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vppon this the said Michael saied that Monsieur d'Esilsteyne wold be
glad to know what those devicis were , which knowen he myght se what
hope he myght haue of eny ffrute to cum of his cummyng . Whervnto the
Kingis Highnes answered that sith his Grace had made the intimation it
wold not well stande with his honor , after such a sleight fashion to
make eny overture of such pointis . MORE,391.024.310

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if R Mon sieur d'Esilstey cam in such sufficient maner authorised
by th'Emperor , he shold not faile to fynde his Grace such , that
having so good zele and desire to the peace , he shold haue cause to be
gladde of his iorney . MORE,391.024.311

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus mych the Kingis Highnes commaunded me to advertise your Grace
concernyng the communication had bitwene his Grace and the said Michael
, desiring your Grace of your high wisedome to considre what were
ferther to be devised or sett forth concernyng the said overture of R
Mon sieur d'Esilsteyne . MORE,391.024.312

<P_392>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After this whan I was goone from his Highness , hit lyked hym to send
agayne for me in to his privy chambre abowte x of the clokke
MORE,392.024.313

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than commaunded me to aduertise your Grace ferther that he had
considered with hym selfe how loth the Low Cuntreis be to haue eny
warre with hym and that hym selfe and your Grace , if it may be voided
, wold be as lothe to haue eny warre with theym . MORE,392.024.314

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for that cause his Grace thinketh it good that albeit he wold there
were no slakkenes in putting of my Lord Sandis , and his cumpany in a
redynesse , yit they shold not over hastely be sent over , leste those
Low Cuntrees being put in more dowte and fere of his Gracis entent and
purpose toward theym for some exploit to be done by land , myght be the
rather moved to retayne and kepe still the goodis of his merchauntis
and to bygynne also some busynes vppon th'Englishe pale , which thing
the matter thus hanging without ferther fere or suspicion added , his
Highnes verily thinketh that they will not attempte , but rather in
good hope of peace accelerate the delivery of his merchauntis goodis ,
namely perceiving the discharge of the Spanyardis whom by your Gracis
moost prudent advice his Highnes hath condescended shortely to sett at
libertie and fre passage . MORE,392.024.315

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And his Grace also thinketh that if my Lord Sandis with his cumpany
were at Gisnes they shold be sore preaced by the French partie to ioyne
with them in some exploite vppon the borders of Flaunders , which thyng
either they shold stifly refuse to do and therby peradventure move
grudge and suspicion , or ioyne in the doing . MORE,392.024.316

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therby some hurt done vn to Flaundres vppon the ffruntiers myght
not onely $exasperate the mater and hyndre the peace causyng the goodis
of his merchauntis to be retayned but also geve occasion to haue some
broilery made vppon the Englishe <P_393> pale in which his peple myght
percase take more harme than they shold inferre . MORE,393.024.317

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whan I was abowte to haue shewed his Highnes sumwhat of my pore
mynde in the mater , he saied this gere could not be done so sodeynly
but that his Grace and yours shold speke to gether first
MORE,393.024.318

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane while he commaunded me thus mych to advertise your
Grace of his mynde . MORE,393.024.319

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ferthermore his Highnes desireth your Grace at such tyme as ye shall
call the Spanyardis by fore you to geve theym libertie to departe ,
MORE,393.024.320

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hit may lyke you in such effectuall wise to declare vn to theym what
favor his Highnes bereth to the nation of Spayne and how lothe his
Grace wold haue ben to haue eny warre with theym , that thopinion of
his graciouse favor toward theym comprobate and corroborate by theire
discharge and franke deliveraunce being by theym reported in Spayne may
move the nobles and the peple there to take the more grevousely toward
th'Eymperor that his vnresonable hardenes shold be the cause and
occasion of the warre . MORE,393.024.321

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His Highnes hath also commaunded me to write vn to your Grace that
there is an hospitall in Sowthwarke wherof his Highnes is enformed that
the Maister is olde , blynd and feble , MORE,393.024.322

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and albeit that the hospitall is in the gifte of the Bishoppe of
Wynchestre , yit his Grace is enformed that your Grace may as Legate
geve the Maister in this case a coadiutor . Which if your Grace
conveniently may , than his Highnes very hartely requireth your Grace
that it may lyke you to appoint for his coadiutor his Gracis chappeleyn
Mr. Stanley , which to desire of your Grace he saith that ii thingis
move hym , MORE,393.024.323

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the one that he wold the man were provided for being a gentleman borne
and his Gracis chappeleyn , MORE,393.024.324

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the tother is that his Grace being therby ridde and discharged of hym
myght , as he shortely wold , haue a bettre lerned man in his place .
MORE,393.024.325

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your Grace to receive with this presentis such lettres as
the Kingis Grace hath yisterday received owte of Ireland , <P_394>
which after that I had by his Gracis $commaundement redde and reported
vn to his Grace , he commaunded me to sende theym vn to your Grace to
be by your high wisedom ferther considered and answeris to theym to be
devised such as to your high prudence $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sene
convenient . MORE,394.024.326

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lord long preserve your good Grace in honor and helth .
MORE,394.024.327

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Wyndesore this xvi=th= of Marche . MORE,394.024.328

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Gracis humble orator , and moost bounden bedisman , Thomas More .
MORE,394.024.329

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:MORE_024:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legatis good Grace . MORE,394.024.330

<Q_MOR_A_1529_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_025> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1478> <R_ALICE_MORE> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_WIFE> <R-DOB_1471?>

<P_422>

{ED:174._TO_LADY_MORE.}

{ED:Woodstock}

{ED:3_September_[1529]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Maystres Alyce , in my moste hartie wyse I recommende me to $you .
MORE,422.025.331

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where as I am enformed by my sone Heron of the losse of our barns
and our neighbours also with all the corne that was therin , albeit
<paren> savyng Goddis pleasuer </paren> it wer greate pytie of so
$myche good corne loste yet sythe it hathe lyked hym to sende vs suche
a chaunce , we muste and ar bounden not onely to be content but also to
be glade of his visitacion . MORE,422.025.332

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He sent vs all that we haue loste MORE,422.025.333

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sythe he hathe by syche a chaunce taken yt away ageyne his pleasuer
be fulfylled ; MORE,422.025.334

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
let vs never gruge therat but take in good worth and hartely thanke hym
as well for aduersytie as for prosperytie MORE,422.025.335

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and peraduenture <P_423> we haue more cause to thanke hym for our losse
then for our wynnyng , MORE,423.025.336

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for his wysedome better seethe what ys good for vs then we do ourselves
. MORE,423.025.337

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I pray you be of good chere MORE,423.025.338

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take all the howshold with you to chyrche MORE,423.025.339

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther thanke God bothe for that he hathe geven vs and for that he
hathe taken from vs and for that he hathe lefte vs , which yf yt please
hym he can $increase when he wyll MORE,423.025.340

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf it please hym to leve vs yet lesse , at his pleasuer be yt .
MORE,423.025.341

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you to make some good enserche what my poore neyghebors haue
loste and byd them take no thought therfore , MORE,423.025.342

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for and I shuld not leve my selff a spone there shall no poore
neghebore of myne berre no losse by eny chaunce hapned in my howse .
MORE,423.025.343

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you be wyth my children and your howsholde mery in God
MORE,423.025.344

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and devyse somewhat wythe your frendys what way were best to take for
provysyon to $be made for corne for our houshold and for seede thys
yere commyng , $yff $ye thyncke yt good that we kepe the grounde stylle
$in $our $handys , and whether ye thyncke yt good that we so $shall do
or not , MORE,423.025.345

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yet I thyncke it were not best sodenly $thus to leve yt all vp and to
put away our folke of our ferm , $till we haue somewhat aduysed vs
theron , how be it yff we haue more now then ye shall nede and which
can gett them other maysters ye may then dyscharge vs of them
MORE,423.025.346

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I wolde not that eny man were sodenly sent away he wote nere
whyther . MORE,423.025.347

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At my commyng hether I perceved none other but that I shulde tary styll
with the Kyngis Grace MORE,423.025.348

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now I shall , I thynke , by cause of thys chaunce gete leve this
next weke to come home and se you , MORE,423.025.349

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
an then shall we ferther devyse together vpon all thyngis what order
shall be best to take . MORE,423.025.350

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:HUSBAND:1478:51
RECIPIENT:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:WIFE:1471?:58?
LETTER:MORE_025:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus as hartely fare you well wythe all our chyldren as ye can
wyshe , at Woodestokke the iii=de= daye of September by the hand of
Your lovyng husbond , Thomas More Kg . MORE,423.025.351

<Q_MOR_C_1533_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_026> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_ELIZABETH_BARTON> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506?>

<P_464>

{ED:192._TO_ELIZABETH_BARTON}

{ED:Chelsea}

{ED:Tuesday_[1533?]}

<P_465>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Good Madam , and my righte dearelie beloved Syster in our Lorde God .
After my $moste $hartie recommendacion , I shall beseche you to take my
good mynde in good worthe , and $pardon $me that I am so homelye as of
my selfe vnrequired , and allso without necessitie , to gyve $cowncell
to you , of whome for the good inspiracions , and greate revelacions
that it likethe $Allmighty God of his goodnes to gyve and shew , as
manye wise , well lerned , and very $vertuous folke testifye , I my
selfe haue nede , for the comforte of my soule , to require $and aske
advise , MORE,465.026.352

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for surelie , good Madam , sithe it pleasethe God sometyme to $suffer
$such as $are far vnder and of litle estimacione , to gyve yet
frutefull aduertisement $to other as are in the lighte of the Spirite ,
so farre above them , that there $were $betwen them no comparison ; as
he suffred his highe prophet Moyses to be in some $thinges advised and
cowncelled by Jetro , I can not for the love that in our Lorde I $bear
$you refreyne to put you in remembrance of one thinge , which in my
poore mynde $I $thinke highelie necessarie to be by your wisdom
conscidered , referringe thend and order therof , to God and his holye
Spirite , to directe you . MORE,465.026.353

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Good Madam , I $doubt not , but that you remembre that in the
begynninge of my communicacione with you , I $shewed you that I neither
was , nor wolde be , curious of eny knowledge of other $mennes matters
, and lest of all of eny matter of princes or of the realme , in case
$it $so were that God had , as to manye good folkes before tyme he
hathe eny $thinges reveled vnto you MORE,465.026.354

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
suche thinges , I saide vnto your ladiship , that I was not onely not
desirous to heare of , but allso woulde not heare of . MORE,465.026.355

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Now , Madam , I $consider well that manye folke desier to speake with
you , which are not all peraduenture of $my mynde in this poynte ;
MORE,465.026.356

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
but some happe to be curiouse and inquisitive of thinges $that litle
perteine vnto theire partes ; MORE,465.026.357

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and some mighte peraduenture happe to $talke of suche thinges , as
mighte peraduenture after turne to muche harme , as I $thinke you have
harde how the late Duke of Buckingham <P_466> moved with the fame of
$one $that was reported for an holye monke and had suche talkinge with
hyme as after $was $a grete parte of his distruction and disheritinge
of his bloude , and greate slaunder and $infamy of religion .
MORE,466.026.358

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
It sufficethe me , good Madam , to put you in remembrance of suche
thinge , $as $I $no thinge doubt your wisedome and the spirite of God
shall keepe you frome talkinge with any $persons speciallye with ley
persons , of eny suche maner thinges as perteyne to $princes' $affeirs
, or the state of the realme , but onelye to common and talke with eny
person highe $and $low , of suche maner thinges as maye to the soule be
profitable for you to shew and for $them $to $know . MORE,466.026.359

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
$And $thus my good Ladie , and derelie beloved suster in our Lorde , I
make an $end $of $this $my $nedelesse aduertisement vnto you , whome
the blessed Trinitie preserve and increase $in $grace MORE,466.026.360

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
$and $put $in $your mynde to recommende me and myne vnto hym , in your
devout $prayers . MORE,466.026.361

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
$At $Chelseith this Tuesday MORE,466.026.362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:55
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_BARTON:FEMALE:_:1506?:27?
LETTER:MORE_026:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
by the hand of Your hartie loving Brother and Beadsman , Thomas More ,
Kt. MORE,466.026.363

<Q_MOR_C_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_027> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_466>

{ED:194._TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}

{ED:Chelsea}

{ED:1_February_[1533/4]}

<P_467>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
Right Worshipfull , in my moste harty wise I recommend me vnto you .
MORE,467.027.364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
Sir , my cosyn Willyam Rastal hath enformed me , that your Mastership
of your goodness shewed him , that it hath bene <P_468> reported , that
I haue against the booke of certein articles <paren> which was late put
forth in print by the Kinges honorable Counsel </paren> made an answere
, and deliuered it vnto my said cosin to print . MORE,468.027.365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And albeit that he for his part truly denied it , yet because he
somewhat remained in doubte , whither your Mastership gaue him therin
full credens or not , he desired me for his farther discharge to
declare you the very troth , sir , as help me God neither my said
cosein nor any man els , neuer had any boke of mine to print , one or
other , since the said boke of the Kynges Counsel came forth .
MORE,468.027.366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
For of trouth the last boke that he printed of mine was that boke that
I made against an vnknowen heretike which hath sent ouer a worke that
walketh in ouer many mens handes named the Souper of the Lord , against
the blessed sacrament of the alter . MORE,468.027.367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
My aunswere whereunto albeit that the printer <paren> vnware to me
</paren> dated it Anno 1534 , by which it semeth to be printed since
the Feast of the Circumcision , yet was it of very trouth both made and
printed and many of them gone before Christmas . MORE,468.027.368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And my selfe neuer espied the printers ouersight in the date , in more
then three wekes after . MORE,468.027.369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And this was in good faith the last boke that my cosin had of myne .
Which being true as of trouth it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} founde ,
suffiseth for his declaracion in this behalfe . MORE,468.027.370

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
As touching myne owne self , I shal say thus much farther , that on my
faith I neuer made any such booke nor neuer thought to do .
MORE,468.027.371

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
I red the said boke ones ouer and neuer more . MORE,468.027.372

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
But I am for ones reading very farre of from many thinges , whereof I
would haue metely suer knowledge , ere euer I wold make an answere ,
though the matter and the booke both , concerned the porest man in a
towne , and were of the simplest mans making to . MORE,468.027.373

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
For of many thinges which in that boke be touched , in some I knowe not
the lawe , MORE,468.027.374

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
and in some I knowe not the fact . MORE,468.027.375

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And therefore would I neuer be so childish nor so plaie the proud
arrogant fole , by whomsoeuer the booke had bene made , and to
whomsoeuer the matter had belonged , as to presume to make an aunswere
to the boke , concerning the matter wherof I neuer wer sufficiently
lerned in the lawes , nor fully enstructed in the factes .
MORE,468.027.376

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And then while the <P_469> matter parteined vnto the Kinges Highnes ,
and the boke professeth openly that it was made by hys honorable
Counsail , and by them put in print with his Graces licens obteined
therunto , I verely trust in good faith that of your good mind toward
me , though I neuer wrote you worde thereof , your selfe will both
think and say so much for me , that it were a thing far vnlikely , that
an answer shold be made therunto bi me . MORE,469.027.377

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
I wil by the grace of Almighty God , as long as it shal plese him to
lend me life in this worlde , in all such places <paren> as I am of my
duety to God and the Kinges Grace bounden </paren> truly say my mind ,
and discharge my conscience , as becometh a pore honest true man ,
whersoeuer I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} by his Grace commaunded .
MORE,469.027.378

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
Yet suerly if it shold happen any boke to come abrode in the name of
hys Grace or hys honorable Counsail , if the boke to me semed such as
my selfe would not haue giuen mine owne aduise to the making , yet I
know my bounden duety , to bere more honour to my prince , and more
reuerence to his honorable Counsaile , than that it coulde become me
for many causes , to make an aunswere vnto such a boke , or to counsail
and aduise any man els to do it . MORE,469.027.379

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And therfore as it is a thing that I neuer did nor entendid , so I
hartely besech you if you shal happen to perceue any man , either of
euil wil or of lightnes , any such thing report by me , be so good
maister to me , as helpe to bring vs both together . MORE,469.027.380

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
And than neuer take me for honest after , but if ye finde his honesty
somewhat enpaired in the mater . MORE,469.027.381

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
Thus am I bold vpon your goodness to encomber you with my longe rude
letter , in the contentes wherof , I eftsones hartely beseche you to be
in maner aforesaid good maister and frend vnto me : whereby you shall
binde me to be your bedesman while I liue : as knoweth our Lord , whose
especiall grace both bodely and gostly long preserue and kepe you .
MORE,469.027.382

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_027:E1:1534:COPY:OTHER
At Chelchithe in the Vigile of the Purificacion of our Blessed Lady by
the hand of Assuredly all your owne , Thomas More , Knight .
MORE,469.027.383

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_028> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_469>

{ED:195._TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}

{ED:Chelsea}

{ED:Saturday,_[February-March]_1533/4}

<P_470>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_028:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Worshipfull . After righte hartie recommendacion , so it is that
I am enfourmed , that there is a bill put in againste me into the
higher house before the Lordes , concerninge my communicacion with the
Nonne of Cauntorbury , and my writing vnto her : whereof I not a litle
meruaile , the truthe of the mater being such as God and I knowe it is
, and as I haue playnely declared vnto yow by my former lettres ,
wherein I founde you than so goode , that I am nowe bolde eftesonys
vppon your goodenes to desier you to shewe me that fauour , as that I
mighte the rather by your good meanes , haue a copye of the bill .
Which sene , if I finde any vntrue surmise therein as of likelihode
there is , I may make myne humble suyte vnto the Kinges good Grace ,
and declare the truth , either to his Grace or by his Graces
commaundemente , wheresoeuer the matter shall requier .
MORE,470.028.384

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_028:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am so suer of my truthe towarde his Grace , that I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} mistruste his graceous fauour towarde me , vpon the
trouth knowen , nor the iudgement of any honest man . MORE,470.028.385

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_028:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nor neuer shal there losse in this mater greaue me , being myselfe so
innocent as God and I knowe me , whatsoeuer should happen me therein ,
by the grace of Almightie God , who both bodely and gostely preserue
you . MORE,470.028.386

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_028:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Chelsey this presente Saterdaye by the hande of Hertily all your
owne , Tho. More , Knight . MORE,470.028.387

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_029> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_488>

{ED:198._TO_HENRY_VIII.}

{ED:Chelsea}

{ED:5_march_[1534]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit may lyke your Highnes to call to your graciouse rememberaunce ,
that at such tyme as of that great weighty rome and office of your
Chauncellor <paren> with which so far aboue my meritis or qualitees
able and mete therfore , your Highnes had of your incomparable goodnes
honored and exalted me </paren> , ye were so good and graciouse vn to
me , as at my pore humble suit to discharge and disburden me , geving
me licence with your graciouse favor to bestow the residew of my life
in myn age now to come , <P_489> abowt the provision for my soule in
the service of God , and to be your Gracys bedisman and pray for you .
MORE,489.029.388

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It pleased your Highnes ferther to say vn to me , that for the service
which I byfore had done you <paren> which it than lyked your goodnes
far aboue my deserving to commend </paren> that in eny suit that I
should after haue vn to your Highnes , which either should concerne myn
honor <paren> that word it lyked your Highnes to vse vn to me </paren>
or that should perteyne vn to my profit , I should fynd your Highnes
good and graciouse lord vn to me . MORE,489.029.389

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So is it now graciouse Soverayn , that worldely honor ys the thing ,
wherof I haue resigned both the possession and the desire , in the
resignation of your moost honorable office ; MORE,489.029.390

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and worldely profit , I trust experience proveth , and dayly more and
more shall prove , that I never was very gredy theron .
MORE,489.029.391

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But now ys my most humble suit vn to your excellent Highnes , partely
to beseche the same , some what to tendre my pore honestie , but
principally that of your accustumed goodnes , no sinistre information
move your noble Grace , to haue eny more distruste of my trouth and
devotion toward you , than I haue , or shall duryng my life , geve the
cause . MORE,489.029.392

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For in this mater of the wykked woman of Canterbery I haue vn to your
trusty Counsaylour Mr. Thomas Cromwell , by my writing , as playnly
declared the trouth , as I possibly can , which my declaration , of his
dutie toward your Grace , and his goodnes toward me , he hath , I
vnderstand , declared vn to your Grace . In eny parte of all which my
dealing , whither eny other man may peradventure put eny dowte , or
move eny scrupule of suspition , that can I neither tell , nor lyeth in
myn hand to lett , MORE,489.029.393

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but vn to my selfe is it not possible eny parte of my saied demeanure
to seme evil , MORE,489.029.394

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the very clerenes of myn awne conscience knoweth in all the mater my
mynde and entent so good . Wherfore moste gratiouse Soverayn , I
neither will , nor well it can bycome me , with your Highnes to reason
and argue the mater , but in my moost humble maner , prostrate at your
graciouse feete , I onely byseche your Maiestie with your awne high
prudence and <P_490> your accustumede goodnes consider and way the
mater . MORE,490.029.395

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And than if in your so doing , your awne vertuouse mynde shall geve you
, that notwithstanding the manifold excellent goodnes that your
gratiouse Highnes hath by so many maner ways vsed vn to me , I be a
wreche of such a monstrouse ingratitude , as could with eny of theym
all , or with eny other person living , digresse fro my bounden dutie
of allegeaunce toward your good Grace , than desire I no ferther favor
at your graciouse hand , than the losse of all that ever I may lese in
this world , goodis , landis , and libertie and finally my life with
all , wherof the keping of eny parte vn to my selfe , could never do me
penyworth of pleasure , but onely shold than my recomforte be , that
after my short life and your long , <em> which with continuall
prosperite to Goddys pleasure , our Lord for his mercy send you </em> I
shold onys mete with your Grace agayn in hevyn , and there be mery with
you , where among myn other pleasuris this shold yit be one , that your
Grace shold surely se there than , that <paren> how so ever you take me
</paren> I am your trew bedeman now and ever haue bene , and will be
till I dye , how so ever your pleasure be to do by me .
MORE,490.029.396

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it , if in the considering of my cause , your high wisedome and
gratiouse goodnes perceive <paren> as I veryly trust in God you shall
</paren> that I none otherwise haue demeaned my selfe , than well may
stand with my bounden dutie of faithfullnes toward your roiall Maiestie
, than in my moste humble wise I bysech your moste noble Grace , that
the knowledge of your trew graciouse persuasion in that byhalfe , may
releve the turment of my present hevynesse , conceived of the drede and
fere <paren> by that I here such a grevouse bill put by your lerned
Counseile in to your high Cort of Perleament agaynst me </paren> lest
your Grace myght by some sinistre information be moved eny thyng to
thinke the contrary , which if your Highnes do not <paren> as I trust
in God and your great goodnes the mater by your awne high prudence
examined and considered , you will not </paren> than in my moost humble
maner , I besech your Highnes ferther <paren> al be it that in respecte
of my <P_491> formar requeste this other thing ys very sleight </paren>
yit sith your Highnes hath here byfore of your mere habundaunt goodnes
, heped and accumulated vppon me <paren> though I was therto very far
vnwurthy </paren> fro tyme to tyme both wurshuppe and great honor to ,
and sith I now haue lefte of all such thingis , and no thing seke or
desire but the life to come , and in the meane while pray for your
Grace , it may lyke your Highnes of your accustumed benignite somewhat
to tendre my pore honestie and never suffre by the meane of such a bill
put forth agaynst me , eny man to take occasion here after agaynst the
treuth to slawndre me ; which thyng shold yit by the perell of theire
awne soulys do theym selfe more hurt than me , which shall , I trust ,
settle myn harte , with your graciouse favor , to depend vppon the
cumforte of the trouth and hope of hevyn , and not vppon the fallible
opinion or sone spoken wordis , of light and sone chaungeable peple .
MORE,491.029.397

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus , moste dredde and moste dere soverayn Lord , I beseche the
blessed Trinite preserve your moost noble Grace , both-1 in body and
soule , and all that are your well willers , and amend all the contrary
among whome if ever I be or ever haue bene one , than pray I God that
he may with myn open shame and destruction declare it .
MORE,491.029.398

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_029:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At my pore howse in Chelchith , the fifeth day of March , by the knowen
rude hand of Your moste humble and moste hevy faithfull subgiett and
bedeman , Tho. More . Kg . MORE,491.029.399

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_030> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_491>

{ED:199._TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL}

{ED:Chelsea}

{ED:5_March_[1534]}

<P_492>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght Wurshipfull . After my moost harty recommendation , it may please
yow to vnderstond that I have perceived by the relation of my sone
Rooper <paren> for which I beseche allmyghty God reward yow </paren>
your moost cheritable labour taken for me toward the Kyngis graciouse
Highnes , in the procuryng at his moost graciouse hand , the reliefe
and cumfort of this wofull hevynesse in which myn harte standeth ,
neither for the losse of goodis , landis , or libertie , nor for eny
respecte either , of this kynd of honestie that standeth in the opinion
of peple and $worldely reputation , all which maner thingis <paren> I
thanke our Lord </paren> I so litle esteme for eny affection therin
toward my selfe that I can well be content to iubarde , lese , and
forgo theym all and my life therwith , withowt eny ferther respite than
evyn this same present day , either-8 for the pleasure of God or of my
prynce . MORE,492.030.400

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But surely good Maister Cromwell , as I by mouth declared vnto you ,
some parte <paren> for all could I neither than say nor now write
</paren> it thorowly perceth my pore hart , that the Kyngis Highnesse
<paren> whose graciouse favour toward me far above all the thingis of
this world I have ever more desyred , and wherof both for the
conscience of myn awne trew faithfull harte and devotion toward hym ,
and for the manyfold benefytis of his high goodnes continually bestowed
vppon me , I thowght my selfe all way sure </paren> , shold conceive
eny such mynd or opinion of me , as to thinke that in my communication
either-6 with the $nonne or the ffrerys , or in my lettre written vnto
the nonne , I had eny other maner mynde , than myght well stand with
the dewtie of a tender loving subiecte toward his naturall prynce , or
that his Grace shold reken in me eny maner of obstinate harte agaynst
his pleasure in eny thinge that ever I sayed or did concernyng his
great mater of his mariage or concernyng the prymatie of the Pope .
MORE,492.030.401

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Never wold I wishe other thinge in this world more liefe , than that
his Highnes in these thingis all thre , as perfetely knewe my dealyng ,
and as thorowly saw my mynde , as I do my selfe , or as God doth hym
selfe , whose sight perceth deper into my harte , than myn awne .
MORE,492.030.402

<P_493>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For , Syr , as for the fyrst mater , that is to witt my lettre or
communication with the nonne <paren> the whole discourse wherof in my
formar lettre I have as playnely declared vnto yow as I possibly can
</paren> , so pray I God to withdrawe that scruple and dowt of my good
mynde , owte of the Kyngis noble breste and none other wise , but as I
not onely thowght none harme , but also purposed good , and in that
thing moost , in which <paren> as I perceive </paren> his Grace
conceiveth moost griefe and suspition , that is to witt in my lettre
which I wrote vnto her . MORE,493.030.403

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfore Syr , sith I have by my writing declared the trowth of my
dede , and am redy by myn othe to declare the trowth of myn intent , I
can devyse no ferther thing by me to be done in that mater , but onely
beseche allmyghty God to put in to the Kyngis graciouse mynde , that as
God knoweth the thing is in dede , so his noble grace may take it .
MORE,493.030.404

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now towching the seconde point concernyng his gracis great mater of his
mariage , to thentent that yow may se cause with the bettre conscience
to make suit vn to his highnes for me , I shall as playnely declare yow
my demeanure in that mater as I have all redy declared yow in the
tother , MORE,493.030.405

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor more playnely can I not . MORE,493.030.406

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , vppon a tyme at my comyng frome beyond the see , where I had bene
in the Kyngis busynesse , I repeyred as my dewtie was vnto the Kyngis
Grace being at that tyme at Hampton Cort . At which tyme sodaynly his
Highnes walkying in the galery , brake with me of his great mater , and
shewed me that it was now perceived , that his mariage was not onely
agaynst the posytive lawis of the Chirch and the written lawe of God ,
but also in such wise agaynst the lawe of nature , that it could in no
wise by the Chirch be dispensable . MORE,493.030.407

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now so was it that byfore my going over the see , I had herd certeyne
thingis moved agaynst the bull of the dispensation concernyng the
wordis of the Law Leviticall and the Law Deuteronomycall to prove the
prohibition to be de iure diuino , MORE,493.030.408

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yit perceived I not at that tyme but that the greater hope of the
mater stode in certeyne fawtis that were fownden in the bull , wherby
the bull shold by the lawe not be sufficient . MORE,493.030.409

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And such comfort was there in that point as far as I perceived a good
season , that the Counsaile on the tother parte were fayne to bring
forth a <P_494> brief , by which they pretended those defawtis to be
supplyed , the trewth of which brief was by the Kyngis Counsaile
suspected , MORE,494.030.410

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mych diligence was there after done , for the tryall of that point
, wherin what was fynally fownden , either I never knew , or ellys I
not remembre . MORE,494.030.411

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I reherse yow this to thentent yow shall know that the fyrst tyme
that ever I herd that point moved , that it shold be in such high degre
agaynst the law of nature , was the tyme in which as I bygan to tell
yow the Kyngis Grace shewed it me hym selfe , and layed the Bible open
byfore me , and there red me the wordis that moved his Highnes and
diverse other erudite persons so to thinke , and asked me ferther what
my selfe thowght theron . At which tyme not presumyng to loke that his
Highnes shold eny thinge take that point for the more proved or
unproved for my pore mynd in so great a mater , I shewed never the
33lesse as my dewtie was at his commaundment what thing I thowght vppon
the wordis which I there red . Whervppon his Highnes acceptyng
benignely my sodayn vnadvysed answere commaunded me to commune ferther
with Mr. Fox , now his Gracis Almoyner , and to reade a booke with hym
that than was in makyng for that mater . After which booke redd , and
my pore opinion efte sonys declared vnto his Highnes thervppon , his
Highnes lyke a prudent and a vertuouse prynce assembled at another tyme
at Hampton Cort a good nombre of very well lerned men at which tyme as
far as ever I herd there were <paren> as was in so great a mater moost
lykely to be </paren> diverse opinions among theym . MORE,494.030.412

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it I never herd but that they agreed at that tyme vppon a
certeyne forme in which the booke shold be made , which boke was
afterward at Yorke place in my Lord Cardinallys chambre redd in the
presence of dyverse byshoppys <P_495> and many lerned men .
MORE,495.030.413

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And they all thowght that there appered in the booke , good and
reasonable causys , that myght well move the Kyngis Highnes being so
vertuouse a prynce to conceive in his mynde a scruple agaynst his
mariage , which , whyle he could not other wise avoide , he did well
and vertuousely for the acquyeting of his conscience to sew and procure
to have his dowte decided by iudgement of the Chirch . MORE,495.030.414

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After this the suit bygan , MORE,495.030.415

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Legatis satt vppon the mater , during all which tyme I neuer
medeled therein , nor was a man mete to do , MORE,495.030.416

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor the mater was in hand by an ordynary processe of the spirituall
law , wherof I could litle skyll . MORE,495.030.417

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yit whyle the Legatis were sitting vppon the mater , it pleased the
Kyngis Highnes to send me in the cumpany of my <font> Lord of London
</font> now <font> of Duresme </font> in embassiate abowt the peace
that at our being there was concluded at Cameray , bytwene his Highnes
and th'Emperor and the Frenche Kyng . MORE,495.030.418

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after my comyng home his Highnes of his onely goodnes <paren> as
far vnworthy as I was therto </paren> made me , as yow well knowe , his
Chauncellor of this realme , sone after which tyme his Grace moved me
agayne yit efte sonys , to loke and consydre his great mater , and well
and indifferently to pondre such thingis as I shold fynde therin .
MORE,495.030.419

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it so were that thervppon it shold happe me to se such thingis
as shold persuade me to that parte , he wold gladly vse me among other
of his counsailors in that mater , MORE,495.030.420

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and never the lesse he graciousely declared vnto me that he wold in no
wise that I shold other thing do or say therin , than vppon that that I
shold perceive {upon}_P myn awne conscience shold serve me , and that I
shold fyrst loke vnto God and after God vnto hym , which moost
graciouse wordys was the fyrst lesson also that ever his Grace gave me
at my fyrst comyng into his noble servyce . MORE,495.030.421

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This motion was to me very cumfortable MORE,495.030.422

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mych I longed byside eny thing that my selfe either had seene , or
by ferther serch shold happe to fynd for the tone part or the tother ,
yit specially to have some conference in the mater with some such of
his Gracis lerned Counsaile as moost for his parte had labored and
moost haue found in the mater . Whervppon his Highnes assigned vnto me
the now moost reverend fathers Archebyshoppis of Canterbery and Yorke
with Mr. Doctor Fox now his Gracys Almonyer and Mr. Doctor <P_496>
Nicholas the Italiane frere , whervppon I not onely sowght and redde ,
and as ferforth as my pore witt and lerning served me , well wayed and
consydered every such thing as I could fynd my selfe , or rede in eny
other mannys labor that I could gete , which eny thing had written
therin , but had also diligent conference with his Gracis counsailors
afore sayed , whose honors and wurshippis I no thing mysse trust in
this point , but that they both have and will reporte vnto his Highnes
that they neuer found obstinate maner or fashion in me , but a mynd as
toward and as conformable as reason could in a mater disputable requyre
. Whervppon the Kyngis Highnes being ferther advertised both-17 by
theym and my selfe of my pore opinion in the mater <paren> wherin to
have bene able and mete to do hym servyce I wold as I than shewed his
Highnes have bene more glad than of all such worldely commoditees as I
either than had or euer shold come to </paren> his Highnes graciousely
takyng in gre my good mynd in that byhalfe vsed of his blessed
disposition in the prosecuting of his great mater onely those <paren>
of whom his Grace had good nombre </paren> whose conscience his Grace
perceived well and fully persuaded vppon that parte , MORE,496.030.423

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as well my selfe as eny other to whom his Highnes thowght the thing
to seme other wise , he vsed in his other busynes , abyding <paren> of
his abundant goodnes </paren> neuer the lesse graciouse lord vnto eny
man , MORE,496.030.424

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor neuer was willing to put eny man in ruffle or trowble of his
conscience . MORE,496.030.425

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After this did I neuer no thing more therin , MORE,496.030.426

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor neuer eny word wrote I therin to thempayring of his Gracis parte
neither byfore nor after , nor eny man ellys by my procurement ,
MORE,496.030.427

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but settling my mynd in quyete to serve his Grace in other thingis I
wold not so mych as loke nor wittingly lett lye by me eny booke of the
tother parte , albeit that I gladly redd afterward dyverse bookis that
were made on his parte yit , MORE,496.030.428

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor neuer wold I rede the boke that Mr. Abell made on the tother syde ,
nor other boke <P_497> which were as I herd say made in Laten beionde
the see , nor neuer geve ere to the Popis procedingis in the mater .
MORE,497.030.429

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Moreover where as I had founden in my study a boke that I had byfore
borowed of my Lord of Bath , which booke he had made of the mater at
such tyme as the Legatis satt here thervppon , which booke had bene by
me merly gently cast asyde , and that I shewed hym I wold send hym home
his booke agayne , he told me that in good faith he had long tyme
byfore discharged his mynd of that mater , MORE,497.030.430

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and having forgoten that copie to remayne in my handis had burned his
awne copie that he had therof at home , MORE,497.030.431

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bycause he no more mynded to medle enything in the mater he desyred
me to burne the same boke to . MORE,497.030.432

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And vppon my faith so did I . MORE,497.030.433

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Byside this dyverse other wayes have I so vsed my selfe , that if I
rehersed theym all , it shold well appere that I neuer have had agaynst
his Gracis mariage eny maner demeanure , wherby his Highnes myght have
eny maner cause or occasion of displeasure toward me , MORE,497.030.434

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor lyke wise as I am not he which either can , or whom it could
bycome , to take vppon hym the determination or decision of such a
waighty mater , nor boldely to afferme this thing or that therin ,
wherof dyverse pointis a great way passe my lerning , so am I he that
among other his Gracis faithfull subgiettis , his Highnes being in
possession of his mariage and this noble woman really anoynted Quene ,
neither murmure at it , nor dispute vppon it , nor neuer did nor will ,
but with owt eny other maner medlyng of the mater among his other
faithfull subgiettis faithfully pray to God for his Grace and hers both
, long to lyve and well and theyr noble issue to , in such wise as may
be to the pleasure of God , honor and surety to theym selfe , reste ,
peace , welth and profit vnto this noble realme . MORE,497.030.435

<P_498>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As towching the thyrde point , the prymatie of the Pope , I no thing
medle in the mater . MORE,498.030.436

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trowth it is , that as I told yow , whan yow desyred me to shew yow
what I thowght therin , I was my selfe some tyme not of the mynd that
the prymatie of that see shold be bygone by thinstitution of God ,
vntill that I redd in that mater those thingis that the Kyngis Highnes
had written in his moost famouse booke agaynst the heresyes of Marten
Luther , at the fyrst reding wherof I moved the Kyngis Highnes either
to leve owt that point , or ellys to towche it more slenderly for dowt
of such thingis as after myght happe to fall in question bytwene his
Highnes and some pope as bytwene pryncis and popis dyverse tymis have
done . Whervnto his Highnes answered me , that he wold in no wise eny
thing minishe of that mater , of which thing his Highnes shewed me a
secrete cause wherof I neuer had eny thing herd byfore .
MORE,498.030.437

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But surely after that I had redd his Gracis boke therin , and so many
other thingis as I have sene in that point by this continuaunce of
these x yere synnys and more have founden in effecte the substaunce of
all the holy doctors from Saynt Ignatius , disciple to Saynt John
th'Evangelist , vnto our awne dayes both Latynis and Grekis so
$consonaunt and agreing in that point , and the thing by such generall
counsailis so confirmed also , that in good faith I neuer neither redd
nor herd eny thing of such effect on the tother syde , that euer could
lede me to thinke that my conscience were well discharged , but rather
in right great perell if I shold folow the tother syde and deny the
primatie to be provided by God , which if we did , yit can I no thing
<paren> as I shewed yow </paren> perceive eny commoditie that euer
could come by that denyall , MORE,498.030.438

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor that primatie is at the leist wise instituted by the corps of
Christendom and for a great vrgent cause in avoiding of scysmes and
corroborate by continuall succession more than the space of a thowsand
yere at the leist MORE,498.030.439

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor there are passed almoost a thowsand yere sith the tyme of holy
Saynt Gregory . MORE,498.030.440

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfore sith all Christendom is one corps , I can not perceive how
eny membre therof may withowt the comen assent of the body departe from
the comen hede . MORE,498.030.441

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And than if we may not lawfully leve it by our selfe I can not perceive
<paren> but if the thing were <P_499> a treating in a generall
counsaile </paren> what the question could avayle whither the prymacie
were instituted immediately by God or ordeyned by the Chirch .
MORE,499.030.442

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for the generall counsailis assembled lawfully , I never could
perceive , but that in the declaration of the trewthis it is to be
byleved and to be standen to , MORE,499.030.443

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the authorite therof owght to be taken for vndowtable ,
MORE,499.030.444

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or ellys were there in no thing no certayntie , but thorow Christendom
vppon every mannys affectionate reason , MORE,499.030.445

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
all thing myght be browght fro day to day to contynuall ruffle and
confusion , from which by the generall counsailis , the spirite of God
assisting , every such counsaile well assembled kepeth and euer shall
kepe the corps of his Catholique Chirch . MORE,499.030.446

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And veryly sith the Kyngis Highnes hath <paren> as by the boke of his
honorable counsaile appereth </paren> appealed to the generall
counsaile from the Pope , in which counsaile I beseche our Lord send
his grace cumfortable spede , me thinketh in my pore mynd it could be
no furtheraunce there vnto his Gracys cause , if his Highnes shold in
hys awne realme byfore , either-4 by lawys making , or bokys putting
forth , seme to derogate and deny not onely the primatie of the se
apostolique , but also the authorite of the generall counsailys to ,
which I veryly trust his Highnes intendeth not , MORE,499.030.447

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor in the next generall counsaile it may well happen , that this pope
may be deposed and a nother substituted in his rome , with whom the
Kyngis Highnes may be very well content , MORE,499.030.448

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor albeit that I have for myn awne parte such opinion of the popys
primatie as I have shewed yow , yit neuer thowght I the Pope above the
generall counsaile MORE,499.030.449

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor neuer have in eny boke of myn put forth among the Kyngis subgietis
in our vulgare tunge , avaunced greatly the Popis authorite .
MORE,499.030.450

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For albeit that a man may peradventure somewhat fynde therin that after
the comen maner of all Christen realmys I speke of hym as primate yit
neuer do I stykke theron with reasonyng and proving of that point .
MORE,499.030.451

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in my boke agaynst the Maskar , I wrote not I wote well fyve lynys
, and yit of no mo but onely Saynt Peter hym selfe , from whose person
many take not the primatie , evyn of those that <P_500> graunte it none
of his successours , MORE,500.030.452

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yit was that boke made , prented and put forth of very trowth
byfore that eny of the bokis of the counsaile was either prented or
spoken of . MORE,500.030.453

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But where as I had written therof at length in my confutation byfore ,
and for the profe therof had compyled together all that I could fynde
therfore , at such tyme as I litle loked that there shold fall bytwene
the Kyngis Highnes and the Pope such a breche as is fallen synnys ,
whan I after that sawe the thing lykely to drawe toward such
displeasure bytwene theym I suppressed it vtterly MORE,500.030.454

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and never put word therof in to my booke MORE,500.030.455

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but put owt the remanaunt with owt it , which thing well declareth ,
that I never entended eny thing to medle in that mater agaynst the
Kyngis graciouse pleasure , what so ever myn awne opinion were therin .
MORE,500.030.456

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus have I , good Mr. Cromwell , long trowbled your Maistershipp
with a long processe of these maters , with which I neither durst , nor
it could bycome me to encumbre the Kyngis noble $Grace ,
MORE,500.030.457

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I besech yow for our Lordis love , that yow be not so wery of my
most cumberouse suit , but that it may lyke yow at such oportune tyme
or tymys as your wisedom may fynde , to helpe that his Highnes may by
your goodnes be fully enformed of my true faithfull mynde , and that in
the mater of that wykked woman there neuer was on my parte eny other
mynd than good , MORE,500.030.458

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor yit in eny other thing ellys neuer was there nor neuer shall there
be eny ferther fawte fownden in me , than that I can not in every
thinge thinke the same way that some other men of more wisedom and
deper lerning do , nor can fynd in myn hart otherwise to say , than as
myn awne conscience geveth me , which condition hath neuer growen in
eny thing that euer myght towche his graciouse pleasure of eny
obstinate mynd or mysse affectionate appetite , but of a timorouse
conscience rysing happely for lakke of bettre perceiving , and yit not
with owt tendre respecte vnto my most bownden dutie toward his noble
Grace , whose onely favor I so myche esteme , that I no thing have of
myn awne in all this world , except onely my soule , but that I will
with bettre will forgo it than abide of his Highnes , one hevy
displeasaunt loke . MORE,500.030.459

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I make an ende of my long trowbelouse processe , beseching the
blessed Trinitie for the great goodnes ye shew me , and the great
cumforte ye do me , both bodely and <P_501> goostly to prospere yow ,
and in hevyn to reward yow . MORE,501.030.460

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:49?
LETTER:MORE_030:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Chelcith the v=th= day of Marche by Your diepely bounden , Tho. More
. Kg . MORE,501.030.461

<Q_MOR_C_1534_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_031> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_501>

{ED:200._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:[Tower_of_London]}

{ED:[c._17_April_1534]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When I was before the Lordes at Lambeth , I was the first that was
called in , all beit , Maister Doctour the Vicar of <P_502> Croydon was
come before me , and diuers other . MORE,502.031.462

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After the cause of my sendinge for , declared vnto me <paren> wherof I
some what merueyled in my minde , consideringe that they sent for no mo
temporall men but me </paren> I desired the sight of the othe , which
they shewed me vnder the great seale . MORE,502.031.463

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than desired I the sight of the Acte of the Succession , which was
deliuered me in a printed roll . After which redde secretely by my self
, and the othe considered with the acte , I shewed vnto them , that my
purpose was not to put any faulte eyther-1 in the acte or any man that
made it , or in the othe or any man that sware it , nor to condempne
the conscience of any other man . MORE,502.031.464

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as for my self in good faith my conscience so moued me in the
matter , that though I wolde not denie to swere to the succession , yet
vnto the othe that there was offred me I coulde not sware , without the
iubardinge of my soule to perpetuall dampnacion . MORE,502.031.465

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that if they doubted whither I did refuse the othe only for the
grudge of my conscience , or for <P_503> any other fantasy , I was
ready therin to satisfie them by mine othe . Which if they trusted not
, what shoulde they be the better to giue me any other ?
MORE,503.031.466

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if they trusted that I wolde therin swere true , than trusted I
that of their goodnes they woulde not moue me to swere the oth that
they offred me , perceiuing that for to swere it was against my
conscience . MORE,503.031.467

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Vnto this my Lorde Chauncellor said , that thei all were sorie to here
me say thus , and see me thus refuse the oth . MORE,503.031.468

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And they saide all that on their faith I was the very first that euer
refused it ; which wolde cause the Kynges Highnes to conceiue great
suspicion of me and great indignacion towarde me . MORE,503.031.469

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therwith they shewed me the roll , MORE,503.031.470

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and let me se the names of the lordes and the comons which had sworne ,
and subscribed their names allredy . Which notwithstanding when they
saw that I refused to swere the same my self , not blaming any other
man that had sworne , I was in conclusion commanded to goe downe in to
the gardein , MORE,503.031.471

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there vpon I taried in the olde burned chamber , that loketh in to
the gardein MORE,503.031.472

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wolde not go downe because of the heate . MORE,503.031.473

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In that time saw I Maister Doctour Lattemer come in to the gardein ,
MORE,503.031.474

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther walked he with diuers other doctours and chapleins of my Lorde
of Caunterbury , MORE,503.031.475

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and very mery I saw hym , MORE,503.031.476

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he laughed , MORE,503.031.477

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and toke one or tweyne aboute the necke so handsomely , that if they
had been women , I wolde haue went he had ben waxen wanton .
MORE,503.031.478

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After that came Master Doctour Wilson forth from the lordes
MORE,503.031.479

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was with two gentilmen brought <P_504> by me , and gentilmanly sent
straight vnto the Towre . MORE,504.031.480

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What time my Lorde of Rochester was called in before them , that can
not I tell . MORE,504.031.481

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But at night I herd that he had ben before them , MORE,504.031.482

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but where he remayned that night , and so forth till he was sent hither
, I neuer harde . MORE,504.031.483

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hard also that Maister Vicare of Croydon , and all the remenaunt of
the priestes of London that were sent for , wer sworne , and that they
had such fauour at the counsels hande , that they wer not lingered nor
made to daunce any longe attendaunce to their trauaile and cost , as
sutours were somtime wont to be , but were spedde apace to their great
comforte , so farre forth that Maister Vicare of Croydon , either for
gladnes or for drines , or els that it might be sene <paren> quod ille
notus erat pontifici </paren> went to my Lordes buttry barre , and
called for drinke , and dranke <paren> valde familiariter </paren> .
MORE,504.031.484

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Whan they had played their pageant and were gone out of the place ,
than was I called in again . MORE,504.031.485

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And than was it declared vnto me , what a nomber had sworne , euen
since I went aside , gladly , without any styckinge . Wherin I laid no
blame in no man , but for mine owne self answered as before .
MORE,504.031.486

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now as well before as than , they somewhat laide vnto me for obstinacye
, that where as before , sith I refused to swere , I wolde not declare
any speciall parte of that othe {HELSINKI:other} that grudged my
conscience , and open the cause wherfore . MORE,504.031.487

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For therunto I had said to them , that I ferid lest the Kinges Highnes
wolde as they saide take displeasure inough towarde me for the only
refusal of the othe {HELSINKI:other} . And that if I should open and
disclose the causes why , I shoulde therwith but further exasperate his
<P_505> Highnes , which I wolde in no wise do , MORE,505.031.488

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but rather wolde I abide al the daunger and harme that might come
towarde me , than giue his Highnes any occasion of further displeasure
, than the offringe of the oth vnto me of pure necessite constrained me
. MORE,505.031.489

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeit when they diuers times imputed this to me for stubbernes and
obstinacie that I wolde neither swere the oth , nor yet declare the
causes why , I declined thus farre toward them , that rather than I
wolde be accompted for obstinate , I wolde vpon the Kynges gracious
licence or rather his such commaundement had , as might be my
sufficient warraunt , that my declaracion shoulde not offend his
Highnes , nor put me in the daunger of any of his statutes , I wolde be
content to declare the causes in writing ; and ouer that to giue an oth
in ye beginninge , that if I might find those causes by any man in such
wyse answered , as I might thinke mine owne conscience satisfied , I
wolde after that with all mine hart swere the principall oth , to .
MORE,505.031.490

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To this I was answered , that though the Kynge wolde giue me licence
vnder his letters patent , yet wolde it not serue against the statute .
Wherto I said , that yet if I had them , I wolde stande vnto the trust
of his honour at my parell for the remenaunt . MORE,505.031.491

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But yet it thinketh me , loe , that if I may not declare the causes
without perill , than to leaue them vndeclared is no obstinacy .
MORE,505.031.492

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lord of Canterbury takinge hold vpon that that I saide , that I
condempned not the conscience of them that sware , saide vnto me that
it apered well , that I did not take it for a very sure thinge and a
certaine , that I might not lawfully swere it , but rather as a thinge
vncertain and doubtfull . MORE,505.031.493

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But than <paren> said my Lord </paren> you knowe for a certenty and a
thinge without doubt , that you be bownden to obey your souerain lorde
your Kyng . MORE,505.031.494

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore are ye bounden to leaue of the doute of your vnsure
conscience in refusinge the othe {HELSINKI:other} , and take the sure
way in obeying of your prince , and swere it . MORE,505.031.495

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now al was it so , that in mine owne minde me thought my self not
concluded , yet this argument semed me sodenly so suttle and namely
with such authorite comminge out of so noble a prelate's mouth , that I
coulde againe answere nothinge therto but only that I thought my self I
might not well do so , because that in my conscience this was one of
the cases , in which I was bounden that I shoulde not obey my prince ,
sith that what so euer other folke thought in the matter , <paren>
whose conscience and learninge I wolde not condempe nor take vpon me to
iudge </paren> yet in my conscience the trouth semed on the tother side
. Wherin I <P_506> had not enformed my conscience neither sodeinly nor
sleightley , but by longe laysure and diligent serche for the matter .
MORE,506.031.496

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And of trouth if that reason may conclude , than haue we a redy way to
avoyde all perplexities . MORE,506.031.497

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For in what so euer matters the doctours stande in great doubt , the
Kynges commaundement giuen vpon whither side he list soyleth all the
doutes . MORE,506.031.498

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than said my Lorde of Westminster to me , that how so euer the matter
semed vnto mine owne minde , I had cause to feare that mine owne minde
was erronious , when I see the great counsail of the realme determine
of my mynde the contrary , and that therfore I ought to chaunge my
conscience . MORE,506.031.499

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To that I answered , that if there were no mo but my self vpon my side
, and the whole Parlement vpon the tother , I wolde be sore afraide to
lene to mine owne mynde only against so many . MORE,506.031.500

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But on the other side , if it so be , that in some thinges for which I
refuse the oth , I haue <paren> as I thinke I haue </paren> vpon my
parte as great a counsail and a greater to , I am not than bounden to
change my conscience , and conferme it to the counsail of one realme ,
against the generall counsail of Christendome . MORE,506.031.501

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Vpon this Maister Secretary <paren> as he that tenderly fauoreth me
</paren> , saide and sware a gret oth , that he had leuer that his owne
only sonne <paren> which is of trouth a goodly yonge gentilman , and
shall I trust come to much worship </paren> had lost his hedde , than
that I shoulde thus haue refused the oth . MORE,506.031.502

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For surely the Kynges Highnes wolde now conceiue a great suspicion
against me , and thinke that the matter of the nonne of Canterbury was
all contriued by my drift . To which I saide that the contrary was true
and well knowen , and what so euer shoulde mishap me , it laye not in
my powre to helpe it without perill of my soule . MORE,506.031.503

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than did my Lorde Chaunceller repete before me my refusell vnto Mister
Secretary , as to hym that was going vnto the Kynges Grace .
MORE,506.031.504

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in the rehearsing , his Lordship repeted again , that I denied not
but was content to sware to the succession . Wherunto I said , that as
for that poynt , I wolde be content , so that I might se my oth in that
poynt so framed in such a maner as might stande with my conscience .
MORE,506.031.505

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than said my Lorde : ' Mary , Maister Secretary marke that to , that he
will not sware that neither , but vnder some certaine maner . '
MORE,506.031.506

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
' Verily no , my Lorde , ' quoth I , ' but that I will see it made in
such <P_507> wise first , as I shall my self se , that I shall neither
be forsworne nor swere against my conscience . MORE,507.031.507

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Surely as to swere to the succession I see no perill , MORE,507.031.508

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thought and thinke it reason , that to mine owne othe I loke well
my self , and be of counsaile also in the fashion , and neuer entended
to swere for a pece , and set my hande to the whole othe
{HELSINKI:other} . MORE,507.031.509

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
How be it <paren> as helpe me God </paren> , as touchinge the whole
othe {HELSINKI:other} , I neuer withdrewe any man from it ,
MORE,507.031.510

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor neuer aduised any to refuse it , MORE,507.031.511

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor neuer put , nor will , any scruple in any mannes hedde ,
MORE,507.031.512

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but leaue euery man to his owne conscience . MORE,507.031.513

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_031:E1:1534:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And me thinketh in good faith , that so were it good reason that euery
man shoulde leaue me to myne . ' MORE,507.031.514

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_032> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_507>

{ED:201._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:[April-May?_1534]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myne owne good Doughter , Our Lorde be thanked , I am in good health of
body , and in good quiet of minde : MORE,507.032.515

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and of worldly thinges I no more desire then I haue . MORE,507.032.516

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech hym make you all mery in the hope of heauen . MORE,507.032.517

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And such thinges as I somewhat longed to talke with you all ,
concerninge the worlde to come , our Lorde put them in to your mindes ,
as I trust he doth , and better to , by his Holie Spirite : who blesse
you and preserue you all {TEXT:all} . MORE,507.032.518

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Writen with a cole by your tender louinge father , who in his pore
prayers forgetteth none of you all , nor your babes , nor your nurses ,
nor your good husbandes , nor your good husbandes shrewde wiues , nor
your fathers shrewde wyfe neyther , nor our other frendes .
MORE,507.032.519

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus fare you hartely well for lacke of paper . MORE,507.032.520

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas More , Knight . MORE,507.032.521

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Our Lorde kepe me continually true faithful and plaine , to the
contrary whereof I beseche hym hartely neuer to suffre me lyue .
MORE,507.032.522

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For as for longe lyfe <paren> as I haue often tolde the Megge </paren>
I neither loke for , MORE,507.032.523

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor longe for , MORE,507.032.524

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but am well content to goe , if God call <P_508> me hence to morowe .
MORE,508.032.525

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I thanke our Lorde I knowe no person lyuing that I wolde had one
philippe for my sake : of which minde I am more gladde than of all the
worlde beside . MORE,508.032.526

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Recommende me to your shrewde Wyll and mine other sonnes , and to John
Harrys my frende , and your selfe knoweth to whome els , and my shrewde
wyfe aboue all , MORE,508.032.527

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and God preserue you all , MORE,508.032.528

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_032:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and make and kepe you his seruauntes all . MORE,508.032.529

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_03> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_508>

{ED:202._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:[May?_1534]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Our Lord blisse you all . MORE,508.03.530

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I had not ben , my derely beloued doughter , at a firme and fast
point , <paren> I trust in God's great mercie </paren> this good great
while before , your lamentable letter had not a litle abashed me ,
surely farre aboue all other thynges , of which I here diuers times not
a fewe terrible towarde me . MORE,508.03.531

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But surely they all towched me neuer so nere , nor were so greuous vnto
me , as to se you , my welbeloued childe , in such vehement piteous
maner labour to perswade vnto me , that thinge wherin I haue of pure
necessite for respect vnto myne owne soule , so often gyuen you so
precise answere before . Wherin as towchinge the pointes of your letter
, I can make none answere , MORE,508.03.532

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I doubt not but you well remembre , that the matters which moue my
conscience <paren> without declaracion wherof I can nothinge touche the
poyntes </paren> I haue sondry tymes <P_509> shewed you that I will
disclose them to no man . MORE,509.03.533

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore doughter Margaret , I can in this thynge no further ,
MORE,509.03.534

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but lyke as you labour me againe to folowe your minde to desire and
praye you both againe to leaue of such labour , and with my former
answeres to holde your self content . MORE,509.03.535

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A deadly grief vnto me , and moch more deadly than to here of mine owne
death , <paren> for the feare therof , I thanke our Lorde , the feare
of hel , the hope of heauen and the passion of Christ daily more and
more aswage </paren> , is that I perceiue my good sonne your husband ,
and you my good doughter , and my good wife , and mine other good
children and innocent frendes , in great displeasure and daunger of
great harme therby . The let wherof , while it lieth not in my hand , I
can no further but commit all vnto God . MORE,509.03.536

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<paren> Nam in manu Dei </paren> saith the scripture <paren> cor regis
est , et sicut diuisiones aquarum quocunque voluerit , impellit illud
</paren> whose highe goodnes I most humbly besech to encline the noble
harte of the Kynges Highnes to the tender fauor of you all , and to
fauour me no better than God and my self knowe that my faithfull hart
toward hym and my dayly prayour for hym , do deserue . MORE,509.03.537

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For surely if his Highnes might inwardlie see my true minde such as God
knoweth it is , it wolde <paren> I trust </paren> sone aswage his high
displeasure . Which while I can in this worlde neuer in such wise shewe
, but that his Grace may be perswaded to beleue the contrary of me , I
can no further go , MORE,509.03.538

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but put all in the handes of hym , for feare of whose displeasure for
the saue garde of my soule stirred by mine owne conscience <paren>
without insectacion or reproch laieng to any other mans </paren> I
suffre and endure this trouble . Out of which I besech hym to bringe me
, when his will shall be , in to his endelesse blisse of heauen , and
in the meane while , gyue me grace and you both in all our agonies and
troubles , deuoutly to resort prostrate vnto the remembraunce of that
bitter agony , which our Sauiour suffred before his passion at the
Mount . MORE,509.03.539

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if we diligently so do , I verily trust we shall find therin great
comfort and consolacion . MORE,509.03.540

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus my deare doughter the blessed spiritt of Christ for his tender
mercy gouerne and guide you all , to his pleasure and your weale and
comfortes both body and soule . MORE,509.03.541

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_03:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your tender louynge father , Thomas More , Knight . MORE,509.03.542

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_MROPER> <L_MORE_034> <A_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_DAUGHTER> <A-DOB_1505> <R_THOMAS_MORE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1478>

<P_510>

{ED:203._FROM_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:[May?_1534]}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myne owne good Father . It is to me no litle comfort , sith I can not
talke with you by such meanes as {by}_P I wolde , at the lest way to
delite my self amonge in this bitter tyme of your absens , by such
meanes as {by}_P I maye , by as often writinge to you , as shall be
expedient and by readinge againe and againe your most fruteful and
delectable letter , the faithfull messenger of your very vertuous and
gostly minde , rid from all corrupt loue of worldly thinges , and fast
knitt only in the loue of God , and desire of heauen , as becommeth a
very true worshipper and a faithful seruaunt of God , which I doubt not
, good father , holdeth his holy hand ouer you and shall <paren> as he
hath </paren> preserue you both body and soule <paren> vt sit mens sana
in corpore sano </paren> and namely , now when you haue abiected all
erthly consolacions and resyned yourself willingly , gladly and fully
for his loue to his holy protection . MORE,510.034.543

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Father , what thinke you hath ben our comfort sins your departinge from
vs ? MORE,510.034.544

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Surely the experiens we haue had of your lyfe past and godly
conuersacion , and wholesome counsaile , and verteous example , and a
suretie not only of the continuaunce of the same , but also a great
encrese by the goodnes of our Lorde to the great rest and gladnes of
your hart deuoyd of all earthly dregges , and garnished with the noble
vesture of heauenly vertues , a pleasant pallais for the Holy Spirite
of God to rest in , who defend you <paren> as I doubt not , good father
, but of his goodnes he wyll </paren> from all trouble of minde and of
body , and gyue me your most louinge obedient dowghter and handmaide ,
and all vs your children and frendes , to folow that that we prayse in
you , and to our onely comfort remembre and comin together of you ,
that we may in <P_511> conclusion mete with you , mine owne dere father
, in the blisse of heauen to which our most mercifull Lord hath bought
vs with his precious blood . MORE,511.034.545

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your owne most louing obedient doughter and bedeswoman , Margaret Roper
, which desireth aboue all worldly thinges to be in John Woodes stede
to do you some seruice . MORE,511.034.546

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But we lyue in hope that we shall shortly receiue you againe ,
MORE,511.034.547

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_034:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God hartely we may , if it be his holy wyll . MORE,511.034.548

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_AALINGTON> <L_MORE_035> <A_ALICE_ALINGTON>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_HALF-SISTER> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_HALF-SISTER>
<R-DOB_1505>

<P_511>

{ED:205._ALICE_ALINGTON_TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:17_August_[1534]}

<P_512>

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sister Roper , with all my harte I recommende me vnto you , thankinge
you for all kyndenes . MORE,512.035.549

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cause of my writinge at this tyme is to shewe you that at my
commynge home within twoe howres after , my Lorde Chauncelour did come
to take a course at a bucke in owr parke , the which was to my husbonde
a greate comforte that it woulde please him so to doe .
MORE,512.035.550

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than whan he had taken his pleasour and killed his deere he wente vnto
Sir Thomas Barmeston to bedde , where I was the nexte daye with him at
his desier , the which I coulde not say nay to , MORE,512.035.551

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for me thought he did bidde me hertely , and moste specially because I
woulde speake to him for my father . MORE,512.035.552

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whan I sawe my tyme , I did desire him as humbly as I coulde that
he woulde , as I haue herde say that he hath ben , be still goode lorde
vnto my father . MORE,512.035.553

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he saide it did appeare very well whan the mater of the nonne was
laide to his charge . MORE,512.035.554

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for this other mater , he merueyled that my father is so
obstinate in his owne conceite , as that euery body wente forthe with
all saue onely the blynde Bisshopp and he . MORE,512.035.555

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in goode faithe , saied my Lord , I am very glad that I haue no
lerninge but in a fewe of Esoppes fables of the which I shall tell you
one . MORE,512.035.556

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There was a countrey in the which there were almoste none but foolys ,
sauynge a fewe which were wise . MORE,512.035.557

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thei by their wisedome knewe , that there shoulde fall a greate
rayne , the which shoulde make theym all fooles , that shoulde so be
fowled or wette therewith . MORE,512.035.558

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thei seing that , made theym caues vnder the grounde till all the rayne
was paste . MORE,512.035.559

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than thei came forthe thinkinge to make the fooles to doe what thei
liste , and to rule theym as thei woulde . MORE,512.035.560

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But the fooles woulde none of that , MORE,512.035.561

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but would haue the rule theimselfes for all their crafte .
MORE,512.035.562

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whan the wisemen sawe thei coulde <P_513> not obteyne their purpose
, thei wished that thei had bene in the rayne , and had defoyled their
clothes with theim . MORE,513.035.563

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Whan this tale was tolde my Lorde did laugh very merily .
MORE,513.035.564

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than I saide to him that for all his mery fable I did put no dowtes but
that he woulde be goode lorde vnto my father whan he sawe his tyme .
MORE,513.035.565

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He saide I woulde not haue your father so scrupulous of his conscience
. MORE,513.035.566

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And than he tolde me an other fable of a lion , an asse , and a wolfe
and of their confession . MORE,513.035.567

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Fyrste the lion confessed him that he had deuoured all the beastes that
he coulde come by . MORE,513.035.568

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His confessor assoyled him because he was a kinge and also it was his
nature so to doe . MORE,513.035.569

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than came the poore asse MORE,513.035.570

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and saide that he toke but one strawe owte of his maisters shoe for
hunger , by the meanes whereof he thought that his maister did take
colde . MORE,513.035.571

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His confessor coulde not assoile this greate trespace ,
MORE,513.035.572

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but by and by sente him to the bisshoppe . MORE,513.035.573

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than came the wolfe MORE,513.035.574

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made his confession , MORE,513.035.575

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he was straightely commaunded that he shoulde not passe vi=d= at a
meale . MORE,513.035.576

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But whan this saide wolfe had vsed this diet a litle while , he waxed
very hungrye , in so much that on a day when he sawe a cowe with her
calfe come by him he saied to himselfe , I am very hungrye
MORE,513.035.577

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and fayne would I eate , but that I am bounden by my ghostely father .
MORE,513.035.578

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwithstandinge that , my conscience shall iudge me . MORE,513.035.579

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And then if it be so , than shall my consciens be thus , that the cowe
dothe seme to me nowe but worthe a groate , MORE,513.035.580

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than if the cowe be but worthe a groate than is the calfe but worth
ii=d= . MORE,513.035.581

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So did the wolfe eate bothe the cowe and the calfe . MORE,513.035.582

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nowe goode sister hath not my lorde tolde me ii pretye fables ?
MORE,513.035.583

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In goode faythe they please me nothinge , MORE,513.035.584

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor I wiste not what to saye MORE,513.035.585

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I was abashed of this aunswere . MORE,513.035.586

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I see no better suyte than to Almightie God , MORE,513.035.587

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is the comforter of all sorrowes , MORE,513.035.588

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will not faile to sende his comforte to his seruauntes when thei
haue moste neede . MORE,513.035.589

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus fare ye well myne owne good sister . MORE,513.035.590

AUTHOR:ALICE_ALINGTON:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:HALF_SISTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_035:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten the Monday after Sainte Laurence in haste by Your sister Dame ,
Alyce Allington . MORE,513.035.591

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_036> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_NICHOLAS_WILSON> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_532>

{ED:207._TO_DR._NICHOLAS_WILSON.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:1534}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Our Lord be your comforte MORE,532.036.592

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and where as I perceve by sundry meanes that you haue promised to swere
the othe , I beseche $owr Lord geve you therof good lukke .
MORE,532.036.593

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I never gaue any man $counsell to the contrary in my dayes
MORE,532.036.594

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor neuer vsed eny wayes <em> to putte </em> eny scruple in other
folkys consyence concernyng the $matter . MORE,532.036.595

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as I perceve that you wolde gladly knowe $what I intende to
doo you wote well that I tolde you whan we $were bothe abrode that I
wolde therein nether know your mynde $nor no mans elles nor you nor no
man elles shulde therin $knowe myne , MORE,532.036.596

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I wolde be no parte taker with no man nor of trouth neuer I will
MORE,532.036.597

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but levyng every other man to there owne consyence my selff will withe
goode grace folow myne . MORE,532.036.598

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For ageynste myn own to swere were perell of my $dampnacion
MORE,532.036.599

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and <P_533> what myne awne $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to morowe my selff
can not be suer MORE,533.036.600

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whether I shall haue fynally the grace to do accordyng to myne owne
consyence or not hangythe in Goddys goodnes and not in myne , to whome
I beseche you hartely remember me in your devowte prayors
MORE,533.036.601

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shall and daylie doo remember you in myne , suche as they be ,
MORE,533.036.602

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_036:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as long as my poore shorte lyff shall laste , eny thyng $that I
haue , your parte $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} therein . MORE,533.036.603

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_TMORE> <L_MORE_037> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1478> <R_NICHOLAS_WILSON> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_533>

{ED:208._TO_DR._NICHOLAS_WILSON.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:1534}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mayster Wylson in my $right harty wyse I recommend me to you .
MORE,533.037.604

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And very sory am I to se you bysyde the troble that you be in by this
emprisonament with losse of lybertye , gooddys , revenues of your
lyvelod and comfort of your frendys cumpany , fallen also into suche
agony and vexation of mynde thorow dowtys fallyng in your mynde , that
dyuersly to and fro tosse and troble your consience to your great
hevynes of harte as I <paren> to no lytle gryff of myn own mynde for
your sake </paren> perceve . MORE,533.037.605

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$And so myche am I for you good Mr. Doctor the more sory for that yt
lyethe $not in me to geve you suche kynde of comforte as me semythe you
somewhat $desyer and loke for at myne hande . MORE,533.037.606

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For where as you wolde somewhat here $of my mynde in your dowttes , I
am a man at this daye very lytle mete $therfor . MORE,533.037.607

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For this you know well , good Mr. Doctor , that at suche tyme as the
matter came in suche maner in questyon as myne opynyon was asked
therein amongys other and yet you made pryvy thervnto byfore me , you
$remember well that at that tyme you and I many thynges talked to
gether therof . MORE,533.037.608

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And by all the tyme after by which I dyd at the Kyngys gracious
commaundement bothe seke owt and rede and commen with all suche as I
$knew made pryvy to the matter to perceve what I myght therein vpon
bothe sydes and by indyfferent waying of euery thyng as nere as my
poore wytt <P_534> and learnyng wolde serue to se to which syde my
consyence coulde enclyne , and as my owne mynde shulde geve me so to
make his Highenes reporte which waye my selff shulde happe to thyncke
therein . MORE,534.037.609

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For other commaundement had I never of his Grace in good faithe ,
savyng that this knott his Highenes added therto that I shulde therein
loke firste vnto God and after God vnto hym , which word was also the
fyrste lesson that his Grace gaue me what tyme I came first in to his
noble seruyce MORE,534.037.610

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and neither a more indyfferent commaundement nore a more gracious
lesson coulde there in my mynde never Kyng geve his counsaylor or eny
his other seruaunt . MORE,534.037.611

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But as I begane to tell you by all this long tyme , I can not now tell
how many yeres , of all those that I talked with of the matter and with
whome I moste conferred those placys of Scripture and of the olde holye
Doctors that towched eyther the tone syde or the other , with the
counsayles and lawes on eyther syde , that speake therof also , the
moste , as $I trow you wote $well <em> , was your self .
MORE,534.037.612

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For with no man communed </em> I so myche and so often therof as <em>
with you , both for your substancial </em> learnyng and for your mature
iugement , <em> and for that I well perceved </em> ever in you that no
man had or <em> lyghtly could haue , a more </em> faythefull respect
vnto the Kynges honor <em> and surety both-3 of </em> body and soule
than I ever saw that you had . MORE,534.037.613

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> And yet among </em> many other thynges whiche I well lyked in you
, $one $specially was that I well perceved in the thyng that the Kynges
<em> Grace did </em> put you in truste wythe , your substancyall
secrete manner <em> . MORE,534.037.614

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For </em> where I had herde <paren> I wote not now of whom </paren>
$that <em> you had </em> wrytten his Highenesse a booke of that <em>
matter fro </em> $Paris before , yet in all those yeres of our long
$acquayntance <em> and often </em> talkyng and reasonyng vpon the thyng
, <em> I neuer herd you so </em> mych as make ones eny mensyon of that
booke . MORE,534.037.615

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> But elles </em> <paren> excepte there were eny other thynges <em>
in that boke that </em> you peraduenture thought not on </paren> I <em>
suppose that all that euer </em> came to your mynde , that myght in the
<em> matter make for the </em> tone syde or the other comprysed <em>
eyther in the Scripture or </em> in the olde auncyent Doctors ,
MORE,534.037.616

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I verely <em> think in my mynd </em> that you dyd communycate wythe me
<em> and I likewyse </em> wythe <P_535> you MORE,535.037.617

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at the leaste wyse I <em> remember well , that </em> of those
poyntes which you call now newly to <em> your remembraunce </em> there
was none at that tyme forgotten . MORE,535.037.618

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I <em> remember well </em> also by your often conference in the matter
that by <em> all the </em> tyme in which I studyed abowte yt , you and
I were in $every poynt bothe twayne of one opynyon MORE,535.037.619

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and remember $well that the lawes and counsayles and the wordys of
Saynte Augustyne De ciuitate Dei and the pystle of Saynt $Ambrose Ad
paternum and the pistle of Saynt Basyll translated owte of Greke and
the wrytting of Saynt Gregory you and I redde together and $over that
the placys of the Scripture selff bothe in Leviticus and in the
Deutronomye and in the Gospelle and in Saynt Paulys pystles and over
this in that other place of Saynt Augustyne that you remember nowe and
besyde that other placys of his , wherein he properly touchethe the
matter expresly withe the wordis of Saynt Hierome and of <em> Saynt
Chrisostome too , MORE,535.037.620

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I </em> can not now remember of how <em> many moe .
MORE,535.037.621

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I veryly </em> thyncke that on your parte , <em> and I am very sure
</em> that on my parte albeyt that yt <em> had been peraduenture </em>
over long to shew and rede with you <em> euerye mans </em> booke that I
rede by my selff wherto the $perties paraduenture that trusted me
therwith gaue me no <em> leue to shew </em> there bookes ferther as you
peraduenture $vsed the lyke manner wythe me , yet yn good faythe as yt
was of reason my parte in that case to doo , you and I hauyng bothe one
commaundement indifferently to consyder the matter , euery thyng of
Scripture and of the Doctors I faythefully communed with $you
MORE,535.037.622

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as I suppose veryly so dyd you with me to , so $that of me , good
<font> Master </font> Doctor , thoughe I had all the poyntis <em> as
rype </em> $in mynde now as I had than and had styll <em> al the bokes
</em> abowte me that I than had , and were as <em> willyng to medle
</em> in the matter as eny man coulde be , <em> yet coulde you </em>
now no new thyng here of me , more than <em> you haue , I </em> wyn ,
herd often before , nor I wyn I of you <em> neyther . MORE,535.037.623

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But </em> now standythe yt with me in ferre other case .
MORE,535.037.624

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> For afterward </em> whan I had sygnyfyed vnto the Kynges Highenes
myne owne poore opynyon in the matter whiche $his Highenes very
grasyously toke in good parte and that $I saw further progresse in the
matter where in to doo his Grace seruyce to his pleasuer I coulde
<P_536> not , and enythyng medle ageynst his pleasuer I wold not , I
determyned vtterly with my selff to dyscharge my mynde of eny farther
studying or musyng of the mattere MORE,536.037.625

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther vpon I sent home ageyne suche bookes as I had savyng that sume
I burned by the consent of the owner that was mynded as my selff was no
more to medle of the matter , MORE,536.037.626

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfore now good Master Doctor I could not be sufficyent and able
to reson those poyntes ageyne thoughe I were mynded therto sythe many
thynges ar owt of my mynde which I neuer purpose to loke fore ageyne
nor thoughe I wolde were never $lyke to fynde ageyne <em> while I liue
. MORE,536.037.627

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Besydes this , al that euer I loked </em> for was , you wott well ,
<em> concerning two or three questions to be pondred and </em> wayed by
the studye of scripture <em> and the interpretors of the same </em> ,
saue for somewhat that hathe byn <em> touched in the same by the </em>
cannon lawes of the Chirche . MORE,536.037.628

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But than <em> were ther at that time </em> in the matter other thynges
mo , dyuers fautes $found in <em> the bull of </em> the dyspensation ,
by which the Kynges Councell $learned in <em> the spirituall </em> law
reckened the bull vicious , partely for vntrew $suggestyon , partely by
reason of vnsuffycyent suggestyon . MORE,536.037.629

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Now $concerning those poyntes I never medled . MORE,536.037.630

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For I neyther vnderstand $the doctors of the law MORE,536.037.631

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor well can turne there bookes . MORE,536.037.632

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And many thynges haue there syns in this greate matter growne $in
questyon wherin I neyther am suffycyently learned in $the law nor full
enfurmed of the facte MORE,536.037.633

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfore I am <em> not he </em> that eyther murmure or grudge ,
make assertions , <em> hold opinions </em> or kepe dispicions in the
matter , MORE,536.037.634

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but lyke the Kynges trew $poore humble subgiet dayly pray for the
$preservacion of his $Grace <em> , and </em> the Quenes Grace and their
noble issue and of all the $realme , wythe owt harme doyng or intendyng
, I thanke our Lord , $vnto eny man lyvyng . MORE,536.037.635

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fynally as touchyng the othe , the causes for whiche I refused yt , no
man wattythe <em> what they </em> be MORE,536.037.636

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they be secrete in myne awne consyens , some $other peradventure ,
then those that other men wold wene , <em> and suche </em> as I never
dysclosed vnto eny man yet nor <em> never entend to </em> do whyle I
lyve . MORE,536.037.637

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fynally as I sayed vnto <P_537> you , <em> before the </em> othe
offered vnto vs whan we mett in London at $adventure I wold be no parte
taker in the matter but for myne $own selff folow myn owne consyence ,
for which my selff muste $make answere vnto God , and shall leve every
other man to his $owne , MORE,537.037.638

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so say to you styll MORE,537.037.639

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I dare saye ferther that no more never entended you neyther .
MORE,537.037.640

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Many thynges every man learned $woteth well there are , in which every
man ys at lyberty withowte peryll of dampnation to thyncke whiche waye
hym lyste tyll the one parte be determyned for necessary to be beleved
by a generall counsayle MORE,537.037.641

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I am not he that take vpon me to diffyne or determyne of what kynd
or nature euery thyng is that the othe conteynethe , MORE,537.037.642

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor am so bolde or presumptious <em> to blame or disprayse the
consyence </em> of other men , theyr treuthe nor <em> theyr learning
neither </em> , MORE,537.037.643

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor I medle wythe no man but of my selffe , MORE,537.037.644

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor of no mannes consyens ellis wyll I medle but of myne owne .
MORE,537.037.645

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> And in myne owne </em> consyens , I cry God mercy ,
MORE,537.037.646

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I fynd of myne owne <em> life , matters </em> inoughe to thyncke on .
MORE,537.037.647

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue lyved , my thynckis , a long $lyff MORE,537.037.648

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$and now neyther I loke nor I long to lyve myche lenger .
MORE,537.037.649

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue syns I came in the Tower loked ones or twyse to haue geven op my
goste ore this MORE,537.037.650

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in good faythe myne harte waxed the lighter wythe hope therof .
MORE,537.037.651

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet forget I not that I haue a longe rekenyng and a greate to geve
accompte of , MORE,537.037.652

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I put my truste in God and in the meryttis of his bytter passyon ,
MORE,537.037.653

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I beseche hym geve me and kepe me the mynd to long to be owt of
this worlde and to be with hym . MORE,537.037.654

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For I can never but truste that who so long to be with hym $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} well come to hym MORE,537.037.655

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on the tother syde my mynde gevethe me verely that eny that ever
shall come to hym shall full hartely wyshe to be withe hym or ever he
shall come at hym . MORE,537.037.656

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I beseche hym heartely to sett your harte at suche reste and quyet
as may be to his pleasuer and eternall wele of your soule
MORE,537.037.657

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I verely truste that he shortely shall and shall also if it be
his plesure inclyne the Kyngis noble harte to be gratious and favorable
to you and me bothe , sythe we be bothe twayne of trew faythefull mynde
$vnto hym , whyther we be in this matter of one mynde bothe , or of
dyuerse . MORE,537.037.658

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sicut diuisiones aquarum , ita cor regis in manu Domini , quocunque
voluerit , inclinabit illud . MORE,537.037.659

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf the pleasuer of God be , on eny of vs bothe other wyse to
dyspose , I nede to geve you no counsell nor advyse . MORE,537.037.660

<P_538>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But for my selff I moste humbly beseche hym to gyve me the grace in
suche wyse pacyently to conforme my mynde vnto his highe pleasuer
therin that after the trobelouse storme of this my tempestyous tyme his
greate mercy may conducte me in to the suer haven of the ioyfull blysse
of hevyn , and after at his further plesuer <paren> yf I haue eny
</paren> all myne enymyes to , MORE,538.037.661

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there shall we loue together well inoughe MORE,538.037.662

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I thanck our Lord for my parte so do I here to . MORE,538.037.663

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Be not angry now thoughe I pray not lyke for you , MORE,538.037.664

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
you be suer $inoug I wolde my frendys fare no worse than they , nor yet
they , so helpe me <em> God , no </em> worse than my selff .
MORE,538.037.665

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For our Lordis sake , good Mr. $Wylson <em> , pray </em> for me
MORE,538.037.666

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I pray for you dayly and some tyme <em> when I </em> wold be sory
but yf I thought you were a slepe . MORE,538.037.667

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Cumfort your </em> selff , good Mr. Doctor , with remembryng Godis
$great <em> mercye and </em> the Kyngis accustomed goodnes ,
MORE,538.037.668

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by my <em> trougth I thinke </em> that all his Gracys Counsaile
fauorythe you in $their hartis . MORE,538.037.669

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I can not iudge in my mynde eny one of them $so evyll as to be of the
mynde that you shuld do $otherwyse than well . MORE,538.037.670

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for conclusyon in God ys $all . MORE,538.037.671

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Spes non confundit . MORE,538.037.672

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you pardon my $scrybeling MORE,538.037.673

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I can not alway so well enduer to <em> wryte as </em> I myght some
tyme . MORE,538.037.674

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I pray <em> you when ye </em> see tyme convenyent at your $pleasuer
<em> , send me this </em> rude byll ageyne . MORE,538.037.675

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:_:1478:56
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_WILSON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:MORE_037:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Quia quanquam nihil inest <em> mali , tamen </em> propter ministrum
nolim rescire . MORE,538.037.676

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_MROPER> <L_MORE_038> <A_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_THOMAS_MORE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1478>

<P_538>

{ED:209._FROM_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:1534}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myne owne most entierelie beloued Father . I thinke my self neuer able
to geue you sufficient thankes , for the inestimable coumforte my poore
heart receyued <P_539> in the reading of your most louinge and godly
letter , representing to me the cleare shynynge brightenesse of your
soule , the pure temple of the Holy Spirite of God , which I doubte not
shall perpetually rest in you and you in hym . MORE,539.038.677

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Father , if all the worlde had be geuen to me , as I be saued it hadde
ben a small pleasure , in comparison of the pleasure I conceyued of the
treasure of your letter , which though it were writen with a cole , is
worthy in mine opinion to be written in letters of golde .
MORE,539.038.678

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Father , what moued them to shitte you vp againe , we can nothing heare
. MORE,539.038.679

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But surelie I coniecture that when they considered that you wer of so
temperate minde , that you wer contended to abide there all your lyfe
with such libertie , they thought it wer neuer possible to encline you
to their will , except it were by restrayning you fro the Church , and
the company of my good mother your deare wyfe and vs your childern and
bedesfolke . MORE,539.038.680

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But Father this chaunce was not straunge to you . MORE,539.038.681

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For I shall not forgeat how you tolde vs when we were with you in the
gardeine , that these thinges were lyke ynoughe to chaunce shortly
after . MORE,539.038.682

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Father , I haue many tymes rehearsed to mine owne coumfort and diuers
others , your fashyon and wordes ye had to vs when we wer last with you
: for which I trust by the grace of God to be the better while I lyue ,
and when I am departed out of this fraile lyfe , which , I praye God ,
I may passe and ende in his true obedient seruice , after the wholsome
counsaile and fruitfull example of liuing I haue had <paren> good
Father </paren> of you , whom I praye God geue me grace to folowe :
which I shall the better thorowe the assistens of your deuoute praiers
, the speciall staye of my frayltie . MORE,539.038.683

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Father , I am sory I haue no lenger laysure at this time to talke with
you , the chief comforte of my lyfe , MORE,539.038.684

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust to haue occasion to write again shortly . MORE,539.038.685

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust I haue your dayly prayer and blessing . MORE,539.038.686

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your most louing obedient daughter and bedeswoman Margaret Roper ,
which dayly and howrelie is bounden to pray for you , for whome she
prayeth in this wise that our Lorde of his infinite mercye geue you of
his heauenly comfort , and so to assist you with his speciall grace
that ye neuer in any thinge decline from his blessed will , but liue
and dye his true obedient seruaunt . MORE,539.038.687

AUTHOR:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:_:1505:29
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
LETTER:MORE_038:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Amen . MORE,539.038.688

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_039> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_540>

{ED:210._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:1534}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Spirite of God be with you . MORE,540.039.689

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I wolde with my writing , <paren> mine owne good daughter </paren>
declare how much pleasure and comfort , your daughterlye louing letters
wer vnto me a pecke of coles wolde not suffice to make me the pennes .
MORE,540.039.690

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And other pennes haue I <paren> good Margaret </paren> none here :
MORE,540.039.691

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore can I wryte you no long processe , MORE,540.039.692

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor dare aduenture , good doughter , to wryte often . MORE,540.039.693

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cause of my close keping againe did of lykelyhed growe of my
negligent and very plaine true worde which you remember .
MORE,540.039.694

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And verely where as my mind gaue me <paren> as I tolde you in the
gardein </paren> that some such thinge were lykely to happen , so doth
my mynde alway geue me , that some folke yet wene that I was not so
poore as {that_I_was} it appeared in the search , and that it may
therfore happen , that yet eftsone ofter than once , some new sodain
searches may happe to be made in euery house of ours as narowly as is
possible . Which thinge if euer it so should happe , can make but game
to vs that know the trouth of my pouertie , but if they find out my
wyues gay gyrdle and her golden bedes . MORE,540.039.695

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeit veryly beleue in good faith , that the Kynges Grace of his
benigne pitie will take nothing from her . MORE,540.039.696

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thought and yet thinke , that it may be that I was shett vp againe ,
vpon some newe causeles suspicion , growen peraduenture vpon some
secret sinister information , wherby some folke happely thought , that
there shoulde be founde out against me some other gretter thinges .
MORE,540.039.697

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I thanke our Lorde when so euer this coniecture hath fallen in my
mynde , the clearnesse of my conscience hath made mine hearte hoppe for
ioy . MORE,540.039.698

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For one thinge am I very sure of hetherto , and trust in Godes mercye
to be while I lyue , that as often I haue sayd vnto you , I shall for
any thinge toward my prince , neuer take great harme , but if I take
grete wronge , in the sight of God I say , how so euer it shall seme in
the sight of men . MORE,540.039.699

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For to the worlde , wronge may seme right sometyme by false <P_541>
coniecturing , sometimes by false witnesses , as that good Lorde sayd
vnto you , which is I dare say my very good lorde in his mynde , and
said it of very good wyll . MORE,541.039.700

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Before the worlde also , my refusing of this othe is accounted an
heighnous offence , MORE,541.039.701

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my religious feare , toward God , is called obstinacy toward my
Prince . MORE,541.039.702

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But my Lordes of the Counsaile before whom I refused it , might well
perceiue by the heuines of my hart appearing well mo wayes than one
vnto them , that all sturdy stubbernesse whereof obstinacy groweth ,
was very farre fro my mynde . For the clearer profe wherof , sith they
semed to take for one argument of obstinacy in me , that refusing of
the othe , I wolde not declare the causes why , I offred with a full
heauy heart , that albeit I rather wolde endure all the payne and
peryll of the statute than by the declaring of the causes , geue any
occasion of exaspiracion vnto my most dradde Souerain Lorde and Prince
, yet rather than his Highnes shoulde for not disclosing the causes ,
accounte me for stubberne and obstinate , I wolde vpon such his
gracious licence and cammaundement as shoulde discharge me of his
displeasure and peryll of any statute , declare those poyntes that
letted my poore conscience to receyue that othe ; and wolde ouer that
be sworne before , that if I shoulde after the causes disclosed and
declared find them so answered as my conscience shoulde thinke it selfe
satisfied , I wolde therupon sweare the othe that I there refused .
MORE,541.039.703

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To this , Maister Secretary answered me , that though the Kynges Grace
gaue me suche a lycence , yet it coulde not discharge me against the
statutes , in saying any thing that were by them vpon haynous paynes
prohibited . MORE,541.039.704

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In this good warning he shewed hymselfe my specyall tender frende .
MORE,541.039.705

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now you see well Margaret , that it is no obstinacy to leaue the
causes vndeclared , while I coulde not declare them without peryll .
MORE,541.039.706

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But now is it accounted great obstinacy that I refuse the othe , what
so euer my causes be , considering that of so many wiser and better men
none stycked therat . MORE,541.039.707

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And M. Secretary of a great zeale that he bare vnto me , sware there
before them a gret othe , that for the displeasure that he thought the
Kynges Highnes wolde beare me , and the suspicion that his Grace woulde
conceiue of me , which wolde now thinke in his mynde that all the
Nunnes busines was wrought and deuised by me , he had leuer than I
shoulde haue refused the othe , that his owne only sonne <paren> which
<P_542> is a goodly yonge gentillman of whome our Lorde send hym much
ioye </paren> had hadde his head stricken of . MORE,542.039.708

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This worde Margaret , as it was a merueylous declaration of M.
Secretaries great good minde and fauour towarde me , so was it an heauy
hearing to me , that the Kinges Grace my most drad Souerain Lorde , wer
lykely to conceiue such highe suspicion of me , and beare such greuous
indignacion toward me , for the thinge , which without the daunger and
perill of my poore soule , lay not in my hande to helpe , nor dooth .
MORE,542.039.709

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now haue I herd since , that some say that this obstynate maner of mine
, in still refusinge the othe , shall peraduenture force and driue the
Kynges Grace to make a ferther lawe for me . MORE,542.039.710

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} let such a law to be made . MORE,542.039.711

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I am very sure , that if I dyed by such a law , I shoulde die for
that poynt innocent afore God . MORE,542.039.712

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And albeit <paren> good doughter </paren> that I thinke , our Lorde
that hath the heartes of kynges in his hand , woulde neuer suffer of
his high goodnes , so gracious a Prince , and so many honorable men ,
and so many good men as be in the Parlement to make such an vnlawfull
law , as that shoulde be if it so mishapped , MORE,542.039.713

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yet lest I note that poynt vnthought vpon , but many tymes more than
one reuolued and cast in my minde before my commynge hither , both that
peryll and all other that myght put my bodie in peryll of death by the
refusing of this othe . In deuising wherupon , albeit <paren> myne owne
good daughter </paren> that I founde my selfe <paren> I cry God mercie
</paren> very sensuall and my fleshe much more shrinkinge from payne
and from death , than me thought it the part of a faithfull Christen
man , in such a case as my conscience gaue me , that in the sauing of
my bodie shoulde stande the losse of my soule , yet I thanke our Lorde
, that in that conflict , the Spirite had in conclusion the maistry ,
and reason with helpe of faith finally concluded , that for to be put
to death wrongefully for doinge well <paren> as I am very sure I doe ,
in refusing to swere against mine owne conscience , beinge such as I am
not vpon peryll of my soule bounden to chaunge whither my death shoulde
come without law , or by colour of a law </paren> it is a case in which
a man may leese his head and yet haue none harme , but in stede of
harme inestimable good at the hande of God . MORE,542.039.714

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I thanke our Lorde <paren> Megge </paren> since I am come hether I
sett by death euery daye lesse than other . MORE,542.039.715

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For thoughe a man leese of his yeres in this worlde , it is more than
manyfolde recompensed <P_543> by cominge the sooner to heauen .
MORE,543.039.716

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thoughe it be a paine to die while a man is in health yet see I
very fewe that in sickenes dye with ease . MORE,543.039.717

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And finally , very sure am I that when so euer the tyme shal come that
may happe to come , God wote how sone , in which I shoulde lye sicke in
my death bed by nature , I shal than thinke that God had done much for
me , if he had suffred me to dye before by the colowr of such a lawe .
MORE,543.039.718

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore my reason sheweth me <paren> Margaret </paren> that it wer
gret foly for me to be sory to come to that death , which I wolde after
wyshe that I had dyed . MORE,543.039.719

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Beside that , that a man may happe with lasse thanke of God , and more
aduenture of his soule to dye as violently , and as painefully by many
other chaunces , as by enemies or theues . MORE,543.039.720

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore mine owne good dowghter I assure you <paren> thankes be to
God </paren> the thinkynge of any such albeit it hath grieued me ere
this , yet at this day grieueth me nothinge . MORE,543.039.721

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet I knowe well for all this mine owne frailtie , and that Saint
Peter which fered it much lesse than I , fell in such feare sone after
, that at the worde of a simple gyrle he forsoke and forsware our
Sauiour . MORE,543.039.722

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore am I not <paren> Megge </paren> so mad , as to warraunt my
selfe to stande . MORE,543.039.723

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I shall praye , and I praye the mine owne good daughter to praye
with me , that it may please God that hath geuen me this minde , to
geue me the grace to kepe it . MORE,543.039.724

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus haue I mine owne good daughter disclosed vnto you , the very
secrete botome of my minde , referring the order therof onely to the
goodnes of God , and that so fully , that I assure you Margaret on my
faith , I neuer haue prayde God to bringe me hence nor deliuer me fro
death , but referring all thing whole vnto his onely pleasure , as to
hym that seeth better what is best for me than my selfe dooth .
MORE,543.039.725

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nor neuer longed I since I came hether to set my fote in mine owne
howse , for any desire of or pleasure of my howse , MORE,543.039.726

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but gladlie wolde I sometime somewhat talke with my frendes , and
specially my wyfe and you that pertein to my charge . MORE,543.039.727

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But sith that God otherwise disposeth , I committe all wholy to his
goodnes MORE,543.039.728

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take dayly great coumfort in that I perceiue that you lyue together
so charitably and so quietly : MORE,543.039.729

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech our Lorde continue it . MORE,543.039.730

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus , mine owne good daughter , putting you finally in
remembraunce , that albeit if the necessite so shoulde require , I
thanke our Lorde in this quiet and comfort is mine heart at this day ,
and I trust in Goddes goodnes so shall haue grace to continue , yet
<paren> as I said before </paren> I <P_544> verely trust that God shall
so inspire and gouerne the Kynges heart , that he shall not suffre his
noble heart and courage to requite my true faithfull heart and seruice
, with such extreme vnlawfull and vncharitable dealing , only for the
displeasure that I can not thinke so as other doo . MORE,544.039.731

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But his true subiect wil I lyue and dye , MORE,544.039.732

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and truely praye for hym wil I , both here and in the tother worlde too
. MORE,544.039.733

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus mine owne good daughter have me recommended to my good
beddefelowe and all my children , men , women and all , with all your
babes and your nursis and all the maydes and all the seruauntes , and
all our kynne , and all our other frendes abrode . MORE,544.039.734

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I besech our Lorde to saue them all and kepe them .
MORE,544.039.735

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I praye you all praye for me , MORE,544.039.736

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall praye for you all . MORE,544.039.737

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And take no thought for me what so ewer you shal happe to heare ,
MORE,544.039.738

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_039:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but be mery in God . MORE,544.039.739

<Q_MOR_A_1534_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_040> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_544>

{ED:211._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:1534}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Spirite of God be with you . MORE,544.040.740

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your doughterly louyng letter , my derely beloued childe was and is , I
faithfully assure you , much more inward comfort vnto me , then my
penne can wel expresse you , for diuers thinges that I marked therin
but of all thinges most especially , for that God of his high goodnes
geueth you the grace to consider the incomparable difference , betwene
the wretched estate of this present lyfe , and the welthy state of the
lyfe to come , for them that dye in God , and to praye God in such a
good Christen fashion , that it may please hym <paren> it doth me good
here to rehearse your owne wordes </paren> ' of his tender pitie so
firmely to rest our loue in hym , with litle regard of this worlde ,
and so to fle sinne and embrace vertue , that we may say with S. Paule
, Mihi viuere Christus est et mori luchrum . Et illud , Cupio dissolui
et esse cum Christo . ' MORE,544.040.741

<P_545>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech our Lord , my dearly beloued daughter , that holesome prayer
that he hath put in your mynde , it may like hym to giue your father
the grace , daylie to remember and praye , and your self as you haue
written it , euen so dayly deuoutly to knele and praye it .
MORE,545.040.742

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For surely if God geue vs that , he geueth vs and will geue vs therwith
, all that euer we can well wishe . MORE,545.040.743

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore good Marget , when you praye it , praye it for vs both :
MORE,545.040.744

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall on my parte the lyke , in such maner as it shall lyke our
Lorde to geue me poore wretch the grace , that lykewise as in this
wretched worlde I haue been very gladde of your company and you of mine
, and yet wolde if it might be <paren> as naturall charitie bindeth the
father and the childe </paren> so we may reioyce and enioy ech others
company , with our other kynsefolke , alies and frendes euerlastingly
in the glorious blysse of heauen : and in the menetyme , with good
counsaile and prayer ech help other thitherwarde . MORE,545.040.745

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where you write these wordes of your selfe , ' But good father , I
wretch am farre , farre , farthest of all other from such poynt of
perfection , our Lorde send me the grace to amende my lyfe , and
continually to haue an eie to mine ende , without grudge of death ,
which to them that dye in God , is the gate of a welthy lyfe to which
God of his infinite mercie bringe vs all . Amen . Good Father strenght
my frayltie with your deuoute prayers . ' The father of heauen mote
strenght thy frailtie , my good daughter and the frayltie of thy fraile
father too . MORE,545.040.746

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And let vs not doute but he so will , if we wyll not be slacke in
calling vpon hym therfor . MORE,545.040.747

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of my poore prayers such as they be ye may be bold to reken .
MORE,545.040.748

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For Christen charitie and naturall loue and your verie doughterly
dealing <paren> funiculo triplici , <paren> vt ait scriptura </paren>
difficile rumpitur </paren> both binde me and straine me therto .
MORE,545.040.749

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And of yours I put as litle doubte . MORE,545.040.750

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
That you feare your owne frailtie Marget , nothinge mislyketh me .
MORE,545.040.751

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God geue vs both twaine the grace , to dispayre of our owne self , and
whole to depende and hange vpon the hope and strenght of God .
MORE,545.040.752

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blessed apostle S. Paule founde such lacke of strength in himself ,
that in his owne temptacion he was fain thrise to call and cry out vnto
God , to take that temptacion from hym . MORE,545.040.753

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet sped he not of his prayer , in the maner that he required .
MORE,545.040.754

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For God of his high wisdome , seing that it was <paren> as him self
saith </paren> <P_546> necessarie for hym to kepe hym from pryde , that
els he might peraduenture haue fallen in , wolde not at his thrise
praying , by and by take it from hym , MORE,546.040.755

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but suffred hym to be panged in the payne and feare therof , geuing hym
yet at the last this comfort against his feare of falling <paren>
Sufficit tibi gratia mea </paren> . By which wordes it well semeth ,
that the temptacion was so stronge <paren> what so euer kind of
temptacion it was </paren> that he was very fearde of falling , throwgh
the feblenesse of resisting that he began to feele in hym self .
Wherfore for his comfort God answered <paren> Sufficit tibi gratia mea
</paren> puttinge hym in suretie , that were he of hym selfe neuer so
feble and faint , nor neuer so lykely to fall , yet the grace of God
was sufficient to kepe hym vp and make him stand . MORE,546.040.756

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And our Lord sayd ferther , <paren> Virtus in infirmitate proficitur
</paren> . MORE,546.040.757

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The more weke that man is , the more is the strenght of God in his
saueguard declared . MORE,546.040.758

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so S. Paule saith <paren> Omnia possum in eo qui me confortat
</paren> . MORE,546.040.759

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Surely Megge a fainter hearte than thy fraile father hath , canst you
not haue . MORE,546.040.760

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet I verely trust in the great mercye of God , that he shall of
his goodnesse so staye me with his holy hand , that he shall not
finally suffer me to fall wretchedlie from his fauour .
MORE,546.040.761

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the lyke trust <paren> deare doughter </paren> in his high goodnes
I verely conceue of you . MORE,546.040.762

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so much the more , in that there is neither of vs both , but that
if we call his benefites to minde , and geue hym oft thankes for them ,
we may finde tokens many , to geue vs good hope for all our manifold
offences toward hym , that his great mercye , when we wyll hartely call
therfore , shall not be withdrawen from vs . MORE,546.040.763

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And verely , my deare daughter , in this is my great comfort , that
albeit , I am of nature so shrinking from paine , that I am allmost
afeard of a philip , yet in all the agonies that I haue had , wherof
before my coming hether <paren> as I haue shewed you ere this </paren>
I haue had neither small nor few , with heauy fearfull heart ,
forecasting all such peryls and paynfull deathes , as by any maner of
possibilitie might after fall vnto me , and in such thought lyen longe
restles and wakyng , while my wyfe had went I had slept , yet in anye
such feare and heauy pensifenes <paren> I thanke the mightie mercie of
God </paren> I neuer in my minde entended to consent , that I woulde
for the enduring of the <P_547> vttermost , doe any such thinge as I
shoulde in mine owne conscience <paren> for with other mens I am not a
man mete to take vpon me to medle </paren> thinke to be to my self ,
such as shoulde dampnably cast me in the displeasure of God .
MORE,547.040.764

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this is the lest poynt that any man may with his saluacion come to
, as farre as I can see , and is bounden if he see peryll to examine
his conscience surely by learning and by good counsaile and be sure
that his conscience be such as it may stande with his saluacion , or
els reforme it . MORE,547.040.765

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if the matter be such , as both the parties may stande with
saluacyon , then on whither side his conscience fall , he is safe
ynough before God . MORE,547.040.766

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But that mine owne may stand with my own saluacion , therof I thanke
our Lorde I am very sure . MORE,547.040.767

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech our Lord bring all partes to his blisse . MORE,547.040.768

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is now , my good doughter , late . MORE,547.040.769

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore thus I commend you to the holy Trinitie , to gyde you ,
coumfort you and direct you with his Holy Spirite , and all yours and
my wyfe with all my children and all our other frendes .
MORE,547.040.770

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:56
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:29
LETTER:MORE_040:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas More , Knyght . MORE,547.040.771

<Q_MOR_A_1534_T_AMORE> <L_MORE_041> <A_ALICE_MORE> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1471?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_547>

{ED:212._LADY_MORE_TO_HENRY_VIII.}

{ED:[c._Christmas_1534]}

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In lamentable wise , beseche your moste noble Grace your moste humble
subiectis and contynuall bedefolke , the poore miserable wyffe and
children of your trew , poore , hevye subiecte and bedeman Sir Thomas
Moore Knighte , that wheras the same Sir Thomas beinge your Graces
prisoner in your Tower of London by the space of eighte monethes and
above , in greate continuall sicknes of bodye and heuines of harte ,
duringe all which space notwithstandinge that the same Sir Thomas Moore
had by refusinge of the othe forfayted vnto your moste noble Grace all
his goodis and cattells and the profytt of all his landes , anuities
and fees that aswell hyme selfe as your saide bedwoman his wiffe
<P_548> shoulde lyve bye , yet your moste gracious Highenes of your
moste blessed disposition suffred your saide bedewoman , his poore
wiffe , to reteyne and keepe still his moveable goodes and the
reuenewes of his landis to keepe her saide husband and her poore
howseholde with . So it is now , moste gracious Soueraigne , that now
late by reason of a new acte or twane made in this laste passed
prorogacion of your Parliament , not onely the saide former forfayture
ys confirmed , but allso thinheritance of all suche landes and
tenementis as the same Sir Thomas had of your moste bowntifull gyfte ,
amountinge to the yearelie valew lx li , is forfayted allso .
MORE,548.041.772

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus <paren> except your mercifull fauor be shewed </paren> your
saide pore bedewoman his wyffe , which broughte faire substance to hyme
, which is all spente in your Graces seruice , ys likelie to be
vtterlye vndone MORE,548.041.773

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and his poore sonne , one of your saide humble suppliantis , standinge
chardged and bownden for the paymente of greate sommes of money due by
the saide Sir Thomas vnto your Grace , standithe in dangeor to be cast
aweye and vndone in this worlde allso . MORE,548.041.774

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But over all this the saide Sir Thomas hyme selfe , after his longe
trew seruice to his power diligentlie done to your Grace , is likelie
to be in his age and contynuall sickenes , for lacke of comforte and
good kepinge , to be shortlie distroyd , to the wofull heavines and
dedlie discomforte of all your saide sorowful suppliantis .
MORE,548.041.775

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In conscideracione of the premises , $for that his offence ys growen
not of eny malice or obstinate mynde , but of suche a longe contynued
and depe rooted scrupple , as passethe his $power to avoyde and put
awey , it maye like your moste noble Maiestie of your $most habundant
grace to remitte and pardon your moste grevous displeasure $to the
saide Sir Thomas and to have tendre pittye and compassion vppon his
$longe distres and greate heavines , and for the tendre mercye of God
to $delyuer hyme out of prison and suffre hyme quietlie to lyue the
remanaunt of his liffe with your saide poore bedewoman his wiffe and
other of your poore suppliantis his children , with onlye suche
interteynmente of lyving as it shall lyke your moste noble Magistye of
your gracious <P_549> almoys and pyttye to appoynte hyme .
MORE,549.041.776

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this in the waye of mercye and $pittye , MORE,549.041.777

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:63?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:43
LETTER:MORE_041:E1:1534:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all your saide poore bedfolke shall daylie duringe theire lyves
$pray to God for the preservacion of your moste Royall estate .
MORE,549.041.778

<Q_MOR_A_1535_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_042> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_550>

{ED:214._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:2_or_3_May_1535}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Owr Lorde blisse you . MORE,550.042.779

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My derely belouyd Doughter . I dout not but by the reason of the
Counsaylours resortyng hyther , in thys tyme <paren> in whych our Lord
$be theyr comforte </paren> <P_551> these fathers of the $Charterhous
and Master $Reynoldis of Syon <paren> that be nowe </paren> {COM:sic}
iudged to deth for treson , <paren> whose maters and causes I know not
</paren> may happe to put yow in trouble and fere of mynde concernyng
me beyng here $prisoner , specyally for that it ys not vnlykely but
that you haue herd $that $I was brought also before the Counsayle here
my selfe . MORE,551.042.780

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue $thought yt necessary to aduertyse yow of the very trouth , to
thende that $you neyther conceyue more hope than the mater gyueth ,
lest vppon other torne yt myght aggreue your heuynes , nor more $griefe
$and fere than the mater gyueth of , on the tother syde . Wherfore
$shortly $ye shall vnderstand that on Fryday the last day of Apryle in
the afternone , Mr. Leuetenaunt cam in here vnto me , and shewed me
that Mr. $Secretary wold speke with me . Wheruppon I shyfted my gowne ,
and went owt $with Mr. Leuetenaunt into the galery to hym . Where I met
many , some knowen and some vnknowen in the way . MORE,551.042.781

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in $conclusion commyng in to the chamber wher hys Mastershyp sat
with Mr. $Attorney , Mr. Soliciter , Mr. Bedyll and Mr. Doctour
Tregonnell , I was offred to syt with them , whych in no wyse I wolde .
Wheruppon Mr. Secretary $shewed vnto me , that he dowted not , but that
I had by such $frendes $as hyther had resorted to me sene the new
$statutis made at the $last syttyng of the Parlyament . Wherunto I
answered : ye verely . MORE,551.042.782

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Howe $be yt for as much as beyng here , I haue no conuersacion with
eny people , I thought yt lytell nede for me to bestow mych tyme $vppon
them , MORE,551.042.783

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore <P_552> I redelyuerd the boke shortly MORE,552.042.784

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and theffect of the $statutis I neuer marked nor studyed to put in
remembraunce . MORE,552.042.785

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than $he asked me whether I had not red the fyrst statute of them , of
$the Kyng beyng Hed of the Chyrche . Wherunto I answerd , yes .
MORE,552.042.786

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than $his Mastershyp declared vnto me , that syth yt was now by act $of
Parlyament ordeyned that hys Hyghnes and hys heyres be , and $euer
ryght haue bene , and perpetually shuld be , Supreme Hed in $yerth $of
the Chyrch of Englande vnder Cryst , the $Kyngis plesure was , $that
$those of hys Counsaylle there assembled shuld demaund $myne $oppinion
, and what my mynde was therin . Wherunto I $answerd $that $in good
fayth I had well trusted that the $Kyngis $Hyghnesse $woulde $neuer
haue commaunded eny such questyon to $be $demaunded $of $me ;
consydryng that I euer from the begynnyng well and trewly from tyme to
tyme declared my mynde vnto hys Hyghnesse , MORE,552.042.787

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and syns that tyme I $had <paren> I sayd </paren> vnto your Mastershyp
Mr. Secretory also , both by mouth and by wrytyng . MORE,552.042.788

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now I haue in good fayth dyscharged my mynde of all such maters ,
MORE,552.042.789

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and neyther wyll dyspute $Kyngis tytles nor Popys , MORE,552.042.790

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the $Kyngis trew faythfull subiect I am and $will $be {TEXT:wylbe}
, MORE,552.042.791

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and dayly I pray for hym and for all hys , and for yow all that are of
hys honorable Counsayle , and for all the realme , MORE,552.042.792

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and otherwyse than thus I neuer $entend to medell . Wherunto Mr.
Secretory answerd that he thought thys maner answere shuld not satysfye
nor content the $Kyngis Hyghnes , but that hys Grace wold exact a more
full answer . MORE,552.042.793

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And hys $Master-shypp added therunto , that the $Kyngis Hyghnes was a
prynce not of rygour but of mercy and pytty , and though that he had
founde obstynacy at some tyme in eny of hys $subiectis , yet when he
shuld fynde them at an other tyme comfyrmable and submyt them selfe ,
hys Grace wolde shew mercy . And that concernyng my selfe , hys
Hyghnesse wolde be glade to se me take such confyrmable ways , as I
myght be abrode in the worlde agayne among other men as I haue bene
before . Wherunto I shortly <paren> after the inwarde affeccion of my
mynde </paren> answered for a very trouth , that I wolde neuer medle in
the worlde agayne , to haue the worlde gyuyn me . MORE,552.042.794

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And to the remenaunt of the mater , I answerd in effect as byfore ,
shewyng that I had fully determyned with my selfe , neyther-1 to study
nor medle with eny mater of thys worlde , but that my hole study shulde
be , vppon the passyon of Chryst and myne owne passage owt of thys
$worlde . MORE,552.042.795

<P_553>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Vppon thys I was commaunded to go forth for a whyle , and after called
in agayne . At whych tyme Mr. Secretory sayd vnto me that though I $was
prisoner and condemned to perpetuall prison , yet I was not therby
$dyscharged $of myne obedyence and allegeaunce vnto the $Kyngis
Hyghnesse . MORE,553.042.796

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And $thereuppon demaunded me whyther that I thought , that the $Kyngis
Grace myght exact of me such $thyngis as are conteyned in the statutes
and vppon $lyke paynes as he myght of other men . Wherto I answerd that
I $wold not say the contrary . Wherto he seyd , that lykewyse as the
$Kyngis $Hyghnesse wolde be gracyous to them that he founde
$conformable , $so $his Grace wolde folow the course of hys laws toward
such $as $he $shall $fynde obstynate . MORE,553.042.797

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And hys Mastershyp sayd ferther , $that $my $demeanour $in $that
$matter was of a thyng that of $likelyhode $made now other men so
styffe therin as they be . Wherto I answerd , $that I gyue no man
occasyon to holde ony poynte one or other , $nor $neuer gaue any man
aduyse or counsayle therin one way or other . MORE,553.042.798

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$And for conclusyon I coude no ferther go , what so euer payne shulde
$come therof . MORE,553.042.799

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am , quoth I , the $Kyngis trew faythfull subiect and daily $bedesman
MORE,553.042.800

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pray for hys Hyghnesse and all hys and all the realme .
MORE,553.042.801

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I do nobody harme , MORE,553.042.802

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I say none harme , MORE,553.042.803

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thynk none harme , MORE,553.042.804

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but wysh euerye bodye good . MORE,553.042.805

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf thys be not ynough to kepe a man alyue in $good $fayth I long
not to lyue . MORE,553.042.806

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I am dying alredy , MORE,553.042.807

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue syns I came here , bene dyuers tymes in the case that I
thought to dye $within one houre , MORE,553.042.808

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I thank our Lorde I was neuer sory for yt , $but $rather sory whan
I saw the pang past . MORE,553.042.809

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore my pore body ys $at $the $Kyngis plesure ,
MORE,553.042.810

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
wolde God my deth myght do hym good . MORE,553.042.811

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After $this Mr. Secretory sayd : well ye fynde no fawte in that statute
, MORE,553.042.812

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fynde $yow eny in eny of the other $statutis after ? Wherto I answerd ,
Sir , $whatso euer thyng shuld seme to me other than good , in eny of
the $statutis or in that statute eyther , I wolde not declare what
$fawte $I fownde , nor speke therof . Wherunto fynally hys mastershyp
sayd ful gentylly that of eny thyng that I had spokyn , there $shuld
$none aduauntage be takyn , MORE,553.042.813

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whyther he sayd ferther that ther be none to be taken , I am not
well remembryd . MORE,553.042.814

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But he sayd $that reporte shulde be made vnto the $Kyngis Hyghnes , and
hys gracyous plesure knowen . <P_554> Wheruppon I was delyuerd agayne
to Mr. $Leuetenaunt , whych was then called in , MORE,554.042.815

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so was I by Mr. Leuetenaunt $brought agayne into my chamber ,
MORE,554.042.816

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and here am I yet in such case as I $was , neyther better nor worse .
MORE,554.042.817

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
That that shall folow lyeth in the $hande $of $God , whom I besech to
put in $Kyngis Graces mynde that $thyng $that may be to hys hygh
plesure , and in myne , to mynde onely $the weale of my sowle , with
lytell regarde of my body . MORE,554.042.818

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yow with al yours , and my wyfe and all my chylderne and all our
other $frendis both bodily and gostely hertely well to fare .
MORE,554.042.819

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray yow and all them $pray $for me , MORE,554.042.820

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take no thought what so euer shall happen me . MORE,554.042.821

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For $I $verely trust in the goodnesse of God , MORE,554.042.822

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
seme yt neuer so euyll to this worlde , yt shall in dede in a nother
worlde be for the best . MORE,554.042.823

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your $louing $father , $Thomas $More $Knyghte . MORE,554.042.824

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_042:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
written the third MORE,554.042.825

<Q_MOR_C_1535_T_AMORE> <L_MORE_043> <A_ALICE_MORE> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1471?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_554>

{ED:215._LADY_MORE_TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}

{ED:May_1535}

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
Right Honorable , and my especyall gud Maister Secretarye . In my most
humble wyse I recommend me unto your gud Mastershypp , knowlegyng
myself to be most deply boundyn to your gud Maistershypp , for your
monyfold gudnesse , and lovyng favor , both before this tyme , and yet
dayly , now also shewyd towards my poure husband and me .
MORE,554.043.826

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
I pray Almyghtye God continew your gudness so styll , MORE,554.043.827

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
for thereupon hangith the greatest part of my poure husband 's comfort
and myne . MORE,554.043.828

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
The cause of my wrytyng , at this tyme , is to certyfye your especiall
gud Maistershypp of my great and extreme necessyte ; which , on and
besydes the charge of myn owne house , doe pay weekly 15 shillings for
the bord-wages of my poure husband , and his servant ; for the
mayntaining whereof , I have ben compellyd , of <P_555> verey necessyte
, to sell part of myn apparell , for lack of other substance to make
money of . Wherefore my most humble petition and sewte to your
Maistershipp , at this tyme , is to desyre your Maistershypp 's
favorable advyse and counsell , whether I may be so bold to attende
uppon the King 's most gracyouse Highnes . MORE,555.043.829

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
I trust theyr is no dowte in the cause of my impediment ;
MORE,555.043.830

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
for the yonge man , being a ploughman , had ben dyseased with the aggue
by the space of 3 years before that he departed . MORE,555.043.831

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
And besides this , it is now fyve weeks syth he departed , and no other
person dyseased in the house sith that tyme ; wherefore I most humblye
beseche your especyal gud Maistershypp <paren> as my only trust is ,
and ells knowe not what to doe , but utterly in this world to be undone
</paren> for the love of God to consyder the premisses ; and therupponn
, of your most subundant gudnes , to shewe your most favorable helpe to
the comfortyng of my poure husband and me , in this our great hevynes ,
extreme age , and necessyte . MORE,555.043.832

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
And thus we , and all ours , shall dayly , duryng our lyves , pray to
God for the prosperous successe of your ryght honorable dygnyte .
MORE,555.043.833

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
By your poure contynuall Oratryx , Dame Alis More . MORE,555.043.834

AUTHOR:ALICE_MORE:FEMALE:_:1471?:64?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:MORE_043:E1:1535:COPY:OTHER
To the Ryght Honorable , and her especyall gud Maister , Maister
Secretarye . MORE,555.043.835

<Q_MOR_A_1535_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_044> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_555>

{ED:216._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:[Tower_of_London]}

{ED:[3_June_1535]}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Oure Lorde blisse you and all yours . MORE,555.044.836

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For asmuche , deerely beloued doughter , as it is likely that you
either haue hearde or shortely shall heare that the Counsaile was here
this daye , and that I was before theim , I haue thought it necessary
to sende you worde howe the mater standeth . MORE,555.044.837

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And verily to be shorte I perceyue litle difference betwene this time
and the laste , MORE,555.044.838

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as farre as I can see the hole purpose is either-2 <P_556> to driue
me to saye precisely the tone waye , or elles precisely the tother .
MORE,556.044.839

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here satte my Lorde of Cauntorburye , my Lorde Chauncelour , my Lorde
of Suffolk , my Lorde of Wilshire and Mr. Secretarie . MORE,556.044.840

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after my commynge , Mr. Secretarye made rehersall in what wise he
had reported vnto the Kinges Highnes , what had bene saide by his
Graces Counsaile to me , and what had bene aunswerid by me to theym at
myne other beinge before theim laste . Which thinge his Mastershipp
rehersed in goode faithe very well , as I knowledged and confessed and
hartely thanked him therefore . Whereuppon he added thereunto that the
Kinges Highnes was nothinge contente nor satisfied with myne aunswere ,
but thought that by my demeanor I had bene occasion of muche grudge and
harme in the realme , and that I had an obstinate mynde and an euill
towarde him and that my dutie was , being his subiecte ,
MORE,556.044.841

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he had sente theim nowe in his name vppon myne allegeaunce to
commaunde me to make a playne and terminate aunswere whither I thought
the statute laufull or not and that I shoulde either knowledge and
confesse it laufull that his Highnes shoulde be Supreme Heade of the
Churche of Englande or elles to vtter playnely my malignitie . Whereto
I aunswered that I had no malignitie and therefore I coulde none vtter
. MORE,556.044.842

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as to the mater I coulde none other aunswere make than I had before
made , whiche aunswere his Maistershipp had there rehersed .
MORE,556.044.843

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Very heauie I was that the Kinges Highnes shoulde haue any suche
opinion of me . MORE,556.044.844

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howe beit if there were one that had enformed his Highnes many euill
thinges of me that were vntrewe , to which his Highnes for the time
gaue credence , I woulde be very sory that he shold haue that opinion
of me the space of one daye . MORE,556.044.845

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howe beit if I were suer that other shoulde come on the morowe by whom
his Grace shoulde knowe the trouthe of myne innocencie , I shoulde in
the mean while comforte myselfe with consideracion of that .
MORE,556.044.846

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in like wise nowe though it be greate heauines to me that his
Highnes haue suche opinion of me for the while , yet haue I no remedie
to helpe it , but onely to comforte myselfe with this consideracion
that I knowe very well that the time shall come , when God shall
<P_557> declare my trouth towarde his Grace before him and all the
worlde . MORE,557.044.847

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whereas it might happely seeme to be but smalle cause of comforte
because I mighte take harme here firste in the meane while , I thanked
God that my case was suche in this mater thorowe the clearenes of myne
owne conscience that though I might haue payne I could not haue harme ,
MORE,557.044.848

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for a man maye in suche case leese his heade and haue no harme .
MORE,557.044.849

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For I was very sure that I had no corrupte affection , but that I had
alwaie fro the beginninge truly vsed myselfe to lokinge firste vppon
God and nexte vppon the Kinge accordinge to the lesson that his Highnes
taught me at my firste comminge to his noble seruice , the moste
vertuous lesson that euer prynce taught his seruaunte , whose Highnes
to haue of me suche opinion is my greate heavines MORE,557.044.850

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue no meane as I saide to helpe it but onely comforte myselfe
in the meane time with the hope of that ioyfull daye in which my truthe
towardis him shall well be knowen . MORE,557.044.851

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in this mater further I coulde not goe MORE,557.044.852

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor other aunswere therto I could not make . MORE,557.044.853

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To this it was saide by my Lord Chauncelor and Master Secretarie both
that the Kinge might by his lawes compell me to make a playne aunswere
thereto , either the tone waye or the tother . Whereunto I aunswered I
woulde not dispute the Kinges authoritie , what his Highnes might doe
in suche case , MORE,557.044.854

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I saide that verely vnder correction it seemed to me somewhat harde
. MORE,557.044.855

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For if it so were that my conscience gaue me againste the statutes
<paren> wherein howe my mynde giueth me I make no declaracion </paren>
than I nothinge doinge nor nothing sayenge againste the statute it were
a very harde thinge to compell me to saye either precisely with it
againste my conscience to the losse of my soule , or precisely againste
it to the destruction of my bodye . MORE,557.044.856

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To this Mr. Secretarie saide that I had ere this when I was Chauncelor
examined heretiques and thieves and other malefactours MORE,557.044.857

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gaue me a greate praise aboue my deseruinge in that behalfe .
MORE,557.044.858

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he said that I than , as he thoughte and at the leastewise
Bisshoppes did vse to examyne heretiques , whither thei belieued the
Pope to be heade of the Churche and vsed to compell theim to make a
precise aunswere thereto . MORE,557.044.859

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whie shoulde not than the Kinge sith it is a lawe made here that
his Grace is Heade of the Churche here compell men to aunswere
preciselie to the lawe here as thei did than concerninge the Pope .
MORE,557.044.860

<P_558>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I aunswered and saide that I protested that I entendid not to defende
any parte or stande in contencion , MORE,558.044.861

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I saide there was a difference betwene those twoe cases because
that at that time as well here as ellys where thorowe the corps of
Christendome the Popes power was recognished for an vndoubted thinge
which semeth not like a thinge agreed in this realme and the contrary
taken for truthe in other realmes wherunto Mr. Secretary aunswered that
thei were as well burned for the denienge of that , as thei be beheaded
for denienge of this , and therefore as goode reason to compell theim
to make precise aunswere to the tone as to the tother . Whereto I
aunswered that sithe in this case a man is not by a lawe of one realme
so bounde in his conscience , where there is a lawe of the hole corpes
of Christendome to the contrarie in mater towchinge belief , as he is
by a lawe of the hole corpes though there happe to be made in some
place a lawe locall to the contrarye , the reasonablenes or the
vnreasonnablenes in bindinge a man to precise aunswere , standeth not
in the respecte or difference betwene headinge or burninge , but
because of the difference in charge of conscience the difference
standeth betwene headinge and hell . MORE,558.044.862

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Muche was there aunswered vnto this both-2 by Mr. Secretarie and my
Lorde Chauncelor ouer longe to reherse . MORE,558.044.863

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in conclusion thei offred me an othe by which I shoulde be sworen
to make true aunswere to suche thinges as shoulde be asked me on the
Kinges behalfe , concerninge the Kinges owne person . Whereto I
aunswered that verily I neuer purposed to swere any booke othe more
while I liued . MORE,558.044.864

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Then thei saide that was very obstinate if I woulde refuse that ,
MORE,558.044.865

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for euerie man dothe it in the Starre Chamber and everywher .
MORE,558.044.866

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I saide that was trewe MORE,558.044.867

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I had not so litle foresighte but that I might well coniecture what
shoulde be parte of my interrogatorie MORE,558.044.868

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as goode it was to refuse it at the firste , as afterwarde .
Whereto my Lorde Chauncelor aunswered that he thowght I geste trouthe ,
MORE,558.044.869

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I shoulde see theim MORE,558.044.870

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so thei were shewed me MORE,558.044.871

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thei were but twayne . MORE,558.044.872

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The firste whither I had seen the statute . MORE,558.044.873

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The tother whither I belieued that it were a laufull made
interrogatorie or not . Whereuppon I refused the othe and saied further
by mowth , that the firste I had before confessed , and to the seconde
I woulde make none aunswere . Which was the ende of the communication
MORE,558.044.874

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I was thereuppon <P_559> sente awaye . MORE,559.044.875

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the communication before it was saide that it was meruailed that I
stacke so muche in my conscience while at the vttermoste I was not suer
therein . Whereto I saide that I was very suer that myne owne
conscience so enfourmed as it is by suche diligence as I haue so longe
taken therein maye stande with myne owne saluacion . MORE,559.044.876

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I medle not with the conscience of theim that thinke otherwise ,
MORE,559.044.877

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
euerye man suo domino stat et cadit . MORE,559.044.878

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am no mannes iudge . MORE,559.044.879

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was also saide vnto me that if I had as liefe be owte of the worlde
as in it , as I had there saide , why did I not speake euyn owte playne
againste the statute . MORE,559.044.880

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It appeared well I was not contente to die though I saide so . Whereto
I aunswered as the trowthe is , that I haue not bene a man of suche
holy livinge as I might be bolde to offer myselfe to deathe , leaste
God for my presumption might suffer me to fall , MORE,559.044.881

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore I put not miselfe forwarde MORE,559.044.882

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but drawe backe . MORE,559.044.883

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howe beit if God drawe me to it himselfe , than truste I in his greate
mercye , that he shall not faile to giue me grace and strength .
MORE,559.044.884

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In conclusion Mr. Secretarie saide that he liked me this daye muche
worse than he did the laste time , MORE,559.044.885

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for than he saied he pitied me muche MORE,559.044.886

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and nowe he thought that I mente not well , MORE,559.044.887

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but God and I knowe bothe that I meane well MORE,559.044.888

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I praie God doe by me . MORE,559.044.889

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow be you and myne other freindes of goode cheere what so euer
fall of me , MORE,559.044.890

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take no thoughte for me MORE,559.044.891

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but praye for me as I doe and shall doe for you and all theim .
MORE,559.044.892

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_044:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your tender louinge ffather , Thomas More Kg . MORE,559.044.893

<Q_MOR_A_1535_FN_TMORE> <L_MORE_045> <A_THOMAS_MORE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1478> <R_MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_DAUGHTER> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_563>

{ED:218._TO_MARGARET_ROPER.}

{ED:Tower_of_London}

{ED:5_July_1535}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Owr Lorde blisse you goode dowghter and your goode husbande and your
litle boye and all yours and all my children and all my godchildren and
all owr freindis . MORE,563.045.894

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Recommende me <P_564> whan you maye to my goode doughter Cecilye , whom
I beseche owr Lorde to comforte , MORE,564.045.895

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sende her my blessinge and to all her children MORE,564.045.896

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pray her to praye for me . MORE,564.045.897

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende her an handekercher MORE,564.045.898

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and God comforte my goode sonne her husbande . MORE,564.045.899

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My goode dowghter Daunce hath the picture in parchemente that yow
deliuered me from my Ladie Coniars , MORE,564.045.900

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
her name is on the backe side . MORE,564.045.901

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Shewe her that I hertely pray her that you maye sende it in my name to
her agayne for a token from me to praye for me . MORE,564.045.902

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I like speciall well Dorithe Coly , MORE,564.045.903

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye you be good vnto her . MORE,564.045.904

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I woulde wytte whether this be she that yow wrote me of .
MORE,564.045.905

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If not I praye yow be goode to the tother , as yow maye in her
affliction and to my good doughter Jone Aleyne to giue her I pray yow
some kynde aunswere , MORE,564.045.906

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she sued hither to me this daye to pray you be goode to her .
MORE,564.045.907

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I cumber you goode Margaret muche , MORE,564.045.908

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I woulde be sorye , if it shoulde be any lenger than to morrowe ,
MORE,564.045.909

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is S. Thomas evin , and the vtas of Sainte Peter
MORE,564.045.910

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore to morowe longe I to goe to God , MORE,564.045.911

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it were a daye very meete and conveniente for me . MORE,564.045.912

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I neuer liked your maner towarde me better then when you kissed me
laste MORE,564.045.913

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I loue when doughterly loue and deere charitie hathe no laisor to
looke to worldely curtesye . MORE,564.045.914

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Fare well my deere childe MORE,564.045.915

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and praye for me , MORE,564.045.916

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall for you and all your freindes that we maie merily meete in
heauen . MORE,564.045.917

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke you for your greate coaste . MORE,564.045.918

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende nowe vnto my goode dowghter Clemente her algorisme stone
MORE,564.045.919

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sende her and my goode sonne and all hers Goddes blissinge and
myne . MORE,564.045.920

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow at tyme conveniente recommende me to my goode sonne Johan
More . MORE,564.045.921

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I liked well his naturall fashion . MORE,564.045.922

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Owr Lorde blisse him and his goode wife my louinge doughter , to whom I
<P_565> praye him be goode , as he hathe greate cause ,
MORE,565.045.923

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that if the lande of myne come to his hande , he breake not my will
concerninge his sister Daunce . MORE,565.045.924

AUTHOR:THOMAS_MORE:MALE:FATHER:1478:57
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_ROPER[N.MORE]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1505:30
LETTER:MORE_045:E1:1535:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And our Lorde blisse Thomas and Austen and all that thei shall haue .
MORE,565.045.925
