<B_ORIGIN2>

<Q_OR2_A_1520S_T_TWOLSEY> <L_ORIGIN2_001> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_1>

{ED:LETTER_CII._CARDINAL_WOLSEY_TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Myn owne enterly belouyd Cromwell , I beseche yow , as ye loue me and
wyl euyr do any thyng for me , repare <P_2> hyther thys day as sone as
the Parlement ys brokyn vp , leyng aparte all thyngs for that tyme ;
ORIGIN2,2.001.1

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I wold nut onely commynycat thyngs vnto yow wherin for my comfort
and relief I wold haue your good , sad , dyscret aduyse and counsell ,
but also opon the same commytt sertyng thyngs requyryng expedicion to
yow , on my behalf to be solycytyd : ORIGIN2,2.001.2

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this , I pray yow therfor , to hast your commyng hyther assafore , with
owt omyttyng so to do as ye tendyr my socor , reliff , and comfort ,
and quyetnes of mynde . ORIGIN2,2.001.3

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus fare ye wel : ORIGIN2,2.001.4

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
from Asher , in hast , thys Satyrday , in the mornyng , with the rude
hande and sorowfull hert of your assuryd louer T. Car=lis= Ebor .
ORIGIN2,2.001.5

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue also serteyn thyngs consernyng yowr sylf wych I am suere ye
$will $be {TEXT:wolbe} glad to here and knowe : ORIGIN2,2.001.6

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fayle not therfor to be here thys nygth , ORIGIN2,2.001.7

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ye may retorne early in the mornyng ageyn yf nede shul so requyre .
ORIGIN2,2.001.8

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et iterum vale . ORIGIN2,2.001.9

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M. Agusteyn shewyd me how ye had wryttyn onto me a Lettre wherin ye
shuld adu'tyse me of the commyng hyther of the Duke of Norfolke :
ORIGIN2,2.001.10

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_001:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I assure yow ther cam to my hands no suche Lettre . ORIGIN2,2.001.11

<Q_OR2_A_1520S?_T_TWOLSEY> <L_ORIGIN2_002> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_STEPHEN_GARDENER>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1497?>

<P_3>

{ED:LETTER_CIII._CARDINAL_WOLSEY_TO_DR._STEPHEN_GARDENER.}


<P_5>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My owne goode Mastyr Secretary , aftyr my moste herty recommendacions ,
with lycke thanks for your goodness towards me , thes $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} to advirtyse yow that I have beyn informyd by my trusty
frende Thomas Crowmuell that ye have sygnyfied unto hym to my synguler
consolacions howe that the Kyngs Hyghnes , mouyd with pity and
compassyon , and of his excellent goodnes and cheryti consyderyng the
lamentable condicion and stat that I stand yn , hath wyllyd yow with
other lords and mastyrs of hys honorable Cownsell to intende to the
perfygttyng and absolvyng , without further tract or delay , of myn end
and appoyntment , and that my pardon shulde be made in the most ample
forme that my cownsell cowde devyse ; ORIGIN2,5.002.12

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thys the Kyngs moste gracyous remembraunce , procedyng of hymsylf ,
I accompte my sylf not onely moste bowndyn to serve and pray for the
preservation of hys moste Royal Majeste , ORIGIN2,5.002.13

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but also thancke God that ye have occasyon govyn unto you to be a
sollycyter and setter forth of such thyngs as do and shall conserve my
said ende , in the makyng and compownyng whereof myn assuryd trust ys
that ye wele shewe the love and affeccion wych ye have and bere towards
me your old lover and frende . ORIGIN2,5.002.14

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So declaryng your sylf therin that the world may perceive that by your
good meanys the Kyng ys the better goode Lorde unto me ; and that ,
nowe , newly in maner commyng to the world , ther may be such respect
<P_6> had to my poore degre , olde age , and longe contynuyd servys ,
as shal be to the Kyngs hygh honor and your gret prayse and laude ,
wych undowttydly shal folowe yf ye extende yowr benyvolence towards me
and mine , perceiving that by your wysdom and dexteryte I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} releuyd and in this my calamyte holpyn . At the reverens
therfor of God , myn owne goode M. Secretary and refuge , nowe set to
your hande that I may come to a laudable ende and reposse ; seyng that
I may be furnyshyd aftyr suche a sorte and maner as I may ende my short
tyme and lyff to the honor of Cryst 's Churche and the Prince .
ORIGIN2,6.002.15

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , besydys my dayly prayer and true hert , I shal so requyte your
kyndnes as ye shal haue cause to thyncke the same to be wel imployed ,
lycke as my seyde trusty frende shal more amply shewe unto yow to whom
yt may please yow to give for me credens and loving audience :
ORIGIN2,6.002.16

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shall pray for the increase of your honor . ORIGIN2,6.002.17

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyn at Asher with the tremylling hand and hevy hart of your assuryd
lover and bedysman . T. Car=lis= Ebor . ORIGIN2,6.002.18

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_002:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the rygth honorable and my synguler goode frende Master Secretary .
ORIGIN2,6.002.19

<Q_OR2_A_1520S?_T_TWOLSEY> <L_ORIGIN2_003> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_STEPHEN_GARDENER>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1497?>

<P_7>

{ED:LETTER_CIV._CARDINAL_WOLSEY_TO_DR._STEPHEN_GARDENER.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My owne goode mastyr Secretary aftyr my moste herty commendacons I pray
you at the reverens of God to help , that exspedicion be usyd in my
presents , the delay wherof so replenyssheth my herte with hevynes ,
that I can take no reste ; nat for any vayne fere , but onely for the
miserabli condycion that I am presently yn , and lyclyhod to contynue
in the same onles that ye , in whom ys myn assuryd truste , do help and
releve me therein ; ORIGIN2,7.003.20

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for fyrst contynuyng here in thys moweste and corrupt eyer , beyng
enteryd in to the passyon of the dropsy , cum prostratione appetitus ,
et continuo insompnus , I $can $not {TEXT:cannat} lyve ; wherfor of
necessyte I muste be removyd to summe other dryer eyer and place , wher
I may have comodyte of Physycyans . ORIGIN2,7.003.21

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Secondly havyng but Yorke , wych ys now decayd by viijC. =li= by the
yeere I can nat tell how to lyve and kepe the poore nombyr of folks
wych I nowe have ; ORIGIN2,7.003.22

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
my howsys ther be in decay , and of every thyng mete for howsold
onprovidyd and furnyshyd . ORIGIN2,7.003.23

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have non apparell for my howsys ther , nor money to bryng me <P_8>
thether , nor to lyve with tyl the propysse tyme of the year shal come
to remove thither . ORIGIN2,8.003.24

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thes thyngs consyderyd , M=r=. Secretary , must nedys make me in agony
and hevynes ; myn age therwith and sycknes consyderyd .
ORIGIN2,8.003.25

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alas M=r=. Secretary , ye with other my lordys shewyd me that I shuld
otherwyse be furnyshyd , and seyn unto . ORIGIN2,8.003.26

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye knowe in your lernyng and consyens whether I shuld forfit my
spiritualties of Wynchester or no . ORIGIN2,8.003.27

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alas the qualytes of myn offencys consyderyd , with the gret
punisshement and losse of goodes that I have sustignyd , owt to move
petyfull hertys . ORIGIN2,8.003.28

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the moste nobyl Kyng , to whom yf yt wold please yow of your
cherytabli goodnes to shew the premyses aftyr your accustomable wysdom
and dexteryte , yt ys nat to be dowettyd but hys Hyhnes wold have
consyderacon and compassion , aggmentyng my lyvyng , and appoyntyng
such thyngs as shuld be convenyent for my furniture ; wych to do $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} to the Kyngs high honer , meryte , and dyscharge of
consyens ; and to yow gret praysse for the bryngyng of the same to
passe for your olde brynger up and lovyng frende . ORIGIN2,8.003.29

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thys kyndnes exibite from the Kyngs Hyghnes shal prolong my lyff for
sum lytyl whyl , thow yt shall nat be long ; by the meane wherof hys
Grace shal take profygtt , and by my deth non . ORIGIN2,8.003.30

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What ys yt to hys Hyhnes to geve summe convenyent porcion owt of
Wynchester and Seynt Albons , hys Grace takyng with my herty good wyl
the <P_9> resydue . ORIGIN2,9.003.31

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Remembyr , good M=r=. Secretary , my poore degre and what servys I have
done : and how nowe approchyng to deth I must begyn the world ageyn .
ORIGIN2,9.003.32

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseche yow therfor , movyd with pity and compassyon , soker me in
thys my calamyti , ORIGIN2,9.003.33

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to your power , wych I do knowe ys gret , releve me :
ORIGIN2,9.003.34

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I with all myn shall not onely ascrybe thys my relef unto yow , but
also pray to God for the increase of your honor . ORIGIN2,9.003.35

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as my poore shal increase , so I shal not fayle to acquyte yo=r=
kyndnes . ORIGIN2,9.003.36

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyn hastely at Asher with the rude and shackyng hand of your dayly
bedysman and assuryd frende . T. Car=lis=. Ebor . ORIGIN2,9.003.37

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_003:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the rygth honorable And my assuryd frende Mastyr Secretary .
ORIGIN2,9.003.38

<Q_OR2_A_1520S?_T_TWOLSEY> <L_ORIGIN2_004> <A_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473?> <R_STEPHEN_GARDENER>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1497?>

<P_10>

{ED:LETTER_CV._CARDINAL_WOLSEY_TO_SECRETARY_GARDENER.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My owne goode mastyr Secretary goyng this day owt of my pue to sey
masse , your lettres datyd yesternygth at London wer delyveryd unto me
, by the contynue wherof I undyrstand that the Kyngs Hyhnes of hys
excellent goodnes and cheryte ys contentyd that I shal inyoy and have
the admynistracon of Yorke merly , with the gyftts of the promocyons
spiritual and temporall of the same ; reservyd onely onto hys nobyll
Grace the gyft of v or vj of the best promoco~ns : and that hys
pleasure ys I shal leve Wynchester and Saynt Albons . ORIGIN2,10.004.39

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As hereonto Master Secretary I can nat expresse howe moche I am bowndyn
to the Kyngs Royal Maieste for thys hys gret and bowntawse liberalyte ,
reputyng the same to be moche more than I schal evyr be abyl to deserve
. ORIGIN2,10.004.40

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeyt yf hys Maieste , consyderyng the short and lytyl tyme that I
shal lyve here in thys world , by the reason of suche hevynes as I have
conceyved in my hert , with the minyuose of the olde howsys , and the
decay of the seyd archbyshoprych at the lest to the summe of viij C
marcke yerely , by the reason of the Act passyd for fynys of testaments
; with also min long peynful servys and poore <P_11> degre ; and for
the declaracion of hys Graces excellent cheryte , yf hys hyhnes be
myndyd I shal leve Wynchester and Saynt Albons wych I supposyd when I
made my Submyssyan , not offendyng in my treweth towards hys royal
parson , dygnyti , or majeste royal , I shuld not now have deservyd to
have left ; ORIGIN2,11.004.41

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and moche the more knowyng hys Graces excellent propensyon to pyte and
mercy , and rememberyng of the francke departyng with of all that I had
in thys world ; that I may have summe convenyent pencion reservyd unto
me , suche as the Kyngs hyhnes of hys nobyl charite shal thynke mete ;
so orderyng hys that shal succede and my lyvyng , that the same may be
of lyck value yeerly and exstent . Wherat my trust ys and my herte so
gevyth me , that hys Majeste wole make no dyfficultie yf yt may lycke
yow frendly to propone the same ; ORIGIN2,11.004.42

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
assuryng yow that I desyre nat thys for any mynde , God ys my jugge ,
that I have to accumulat good , or desyre that I have to the muke of
the world ; sen God be thankyd , at this ower , I set no more by the
ryches and promocyons of the world than by the roshe undyr my fote ;
but onely for the declaration of the Kyngs honor and hyhe charyte , and
to have wherewith , to do good dedys , and to helpe my poore servants
and kynnysfolks . ORIGIN2,11.004.43

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And furthermore that yt wold please the Kyngs excellent goodnes by your
freindly medyacion , consyderyng how slendyrly I am furnyshyd in my
Howse , nowe specially that the apparell <P_12> of Wynchester and Saynt
Albons $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} takyn from me , to geve and appoynt on
to me a convenyent fernyture for the same , non ad pompam sed
necessariam honestatem and yf I may have the free gyft and dyssposycion
of the benefyces , yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} gretly to my comfort .
ORIGIN2,12.004.44

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yet when any of the v or vj princypall shal fortune to be voyd ,
the Kyngs Grace beyng myndyd to have any of them , hys hyhnes $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} as sure of the same as thougth they wer reservyd .
ORIGIN2,12.004.45

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus by hys nobyl and mercyful goodnes delyveryd owt of extreme
calamyte , and restoryd to a newe fredome , I shall , with Gods mercy
and help , so ordyr my lyff , that I trust hys Majeste shal take
special comfort theran , and be pleasyd with the same .
ORIGIN2,12.004.46

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Spero quod haec quae peto non videbuntur magna . ORIGIN2,12.004.47

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeyt I moste humbly submyt and refferre all my petycions , immo
ipsam vitam , to hys gracyous ordynance and pleasure , prayng yow to
declare and sygnyfye the same , supplying myn indyssposcycon and lack
of wyt conceyvyd by reason of my extreme sorowe and hevynes , that the
same may be to the Kyngs contentacion ; whom I had lever be ded than to
ofende in worde , thowgth , or dede . ORIGIN2,12.004.48

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as towchyng the grantyng of the fee of one $C $=li= {TEXT:C=li=}
for M=r=. Nores duryng hys lyff for hys good servys done unto the Kyng
's hyhnes , for the wych I have alweyes lovyd hym , and for the singler
good hert and mynde that I knowe he hath allweys borne unto me , I am
content to make owt my graunte <P_13> opon the same , ye and yt wol
please the Kyng to inlarge yt to one $C $=li= {TEXT:C=li=} more :
ORIGIN2,13.004.49

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and semblably , cause M. Thesauror hath the kepyng of the Kyngs game
nygth to Fernam , I wold gladly yf yt may stand with the Kyngs pleasure
grawnte onto hym the revercion of such thinges as the lorde Sands hath
ther , with the ampliacion of the fee , above that wych ys oldely
accustomyd , to the summe of xl=li= by the yeer : ORIGIN2,13.004.50

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also I wold gladly geve to M=r=. Comptroller a lycke ffee : and to
M=r=. Russell anothyr of xx=li= by the yeere : remyttyng thys and all
other my suts to the Kyng 's Hyhnes pleasure , mercy , pity , and
compassyon moste holly . ORIGIN2,13.004.51

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Besechyng hys Hyhnes so nowe gracyously to ordyr me that I may from
hens forth serve God quyetly and with reposse of mynd , and pray as I
am moste bowndyn for the conservacion and increase of hys most nobyll
and royal astat . ORIGIN2,13.004.52

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus with my dayly prayer I byd yow farewell . ORIGIN2,13.004.53

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Asher hastely , with the rude hand and moste hevy hert of yowr
assuryd frend and bedysman T. Car=lis= Ebor . ORIGIN2,13.004.54

AUTHOR:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
RECIPIENT:STEPHEN_GARDENER:MALE:_:1497?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_004:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the rygth honorable M=r= Secretary , in hast . ORIGIN2,13.004.55

<Q_OR2_A_1530S?_T_TFRYSBY> <L_ORIGIN2_005> <A_THOMAS_FRYSBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_20>

{ED:LETTER_CVIII._THOMAS_FRYSBY_TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}


<P_21>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshipfull my singuler good Master my duety humbly premised with
my prayer . Pleasith it your good Mastership of your goodnes to call to
your remembraunce when ye laye here with us at Launde Abbey some tyme
ye wolde take the payne to walke with me or my brethern abowt owr
busynes ; ORIGIN2,21.005.56

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as you and I cam on day from Withcoke I had a fall backeward in the
Snowe in a place called the Dammes , betwen Launde and Withcoke ;
ORIGIN2,21.005.57

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by the same tokyn I doo send you by this berar vj. Chesys of this
contre makyng , praying you to accepte the same that the old
acquentaunce somme thyng myght be renewed . ORIGIN2,21.005.58

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You shall nott nede to gyve our M=r=. prior eny thanks for the same .
ORIGIN2,21.005.59

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Other newellies have I not to doo your Mastership pleasur with all ,
but with my prayer which all wayes ye $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} assuryd
of to the pleasure of God , who all wayes have you in his blessid
kepyng , to your harts ease and your worship daily encreasyng .
ORIGIN2,21.005.60

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Laund Abbey this xiiij=th=. daye of January By your beadisman Thomas
Frysby chanon . ORIGIN2,21.005.61

AUTHOR:THOMAS_FRYSBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_005:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull M. Cromwell be this delyvered .
ORIGIN2,21.005.62

<Q_OR2_C_1533_T_TCRANMER> <L_ORIGIN2_006> <A_THOMAS_CRANMER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1489> <R_NICHOLAS_HAWKINS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1495?>

<P_33>

{ED:LETTER_THOMAS_CRANMER_ARCHBISHOP_OF_CANTERBURY,_TO_MR._HAWKYN
S_THE_AMBASSADOR_AT_THE_EMPEROR'S_COURT.}

<P_34>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
In my most hartie wise I commende me unto you ORIGIN2,34.006.63

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and even so woulde be right gladd to here of your welfare , &c .
ORIGIN2,34.006.64

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Thes be to advertise you that inasmoche <P_35> as you nowe and than
take some paynes in writyng vnto me , I woulde be lothe you shuld
thynke your Labour utterly lost and forgotten for lake of wrytyng
agayne ; ORIGIN2,35.006.65

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
therefore and bycause I reken you be somedele desirous of suche newis
as hathe byn here with us of late in the Kyngis Graces matters , I
entend to enforme you a parte therof accordyng to the tenure and
purporte vsyd in that behalf . ORIGIN2,35.006.66

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Ande fyrste as towchyng the small determynacion and concludyng of the
matter of devorse betwene my Lady Kateren and the Kyngs Grace , whiche
said matter after the Convocacion in that behalf hadde determyned and
aggreed accordyng to the former consent of the Vniversites , yt was
thowght convenient by the Kyng and his lernyd Councell that I shuld
repayre unto Dunstable , which ys within iiij. myles vnto Amptell ,
where the said Lady Kateren kepeth her howse , and there to call her
before me , to here the fynall Sentance in this said mateir .
ORIGIN2,35.006.67

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Notwithstandyng she would not att all obey therunto , ORIGIN2,35.006.68

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for whan she was by doctour Lee cited to appear by a daye , she utterly
refused the same , sayinge that inasmoche as her cause was before the
Pope she would have none other judge ; ORIGIN2,35.006.69

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and therfore woulde not take me for her judge . ORIGIN2,35.006.70

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Nevertheless the viij=th= daye of Maye , accordyng to the said
appoyntment , I came vnto Dunstable , my Lorde of Lyncoln beyng
assistante vnto me , and my Lorde of Wyncehester , Doctour Bell ,
Doctour <P_36> Claybroke , Doctour Trygonnel , Doctour Hewis , Doctour
Olyver , Doctour Brytten , Mr. Bedell , with diuerse other lernyd in
the Lawe beyng councellours in the Lawe for the King 's parte :
ORIGIN2,36.006.71

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and soo there at our commyng kepte a Courte for the apperance of the
said Lady Kateren , where were examyned certeyn witnes whiche testified
that she was lawfully cited and called to appere , whome for fawte of
apperance was declared contumax ; procedyng in the said cause agaynste
her in paenam contumaciam as the processe of the Lawe thereunto
belongeth ; whiche contynewed xv. dayes after our cummyng thither .
ORIGIN2,36.006.72

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And the morow after Assension daye I gave finall Sentance therin , howe
that it was indispensable for the Pope to lycense any suche marieges .
ORIGIN2,36.006.73

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
This donne , and after our reiornyng home agayne , the Kings Highnes
prepared al thyngs convenient for the Coronacion of the Queene , whiche
also was after suche a maner as foloweth . ORIGIN2,36.006.74

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
The Thursdaye nexte before the feaste of Pentecost , the Kyng and the
Queene beyng at Grenewyche , all the Craftes of London thereunto well
appoynted , in severall bargis deckyd after the most gorgiouse and
sumptuous maner , with dyverse pagiantes thereunto belongyng , repayred
and wayted all together upon the Mayre of London ; ORIGIN2,36.006.75

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and so , well furnysshed , cam all vnto Grenewiche , where they taryed
and wayted for <P_37> the Queenes commyng to her barge : which so done
, they brought her unto the Tower , tromppets , shambes , and other
dyverse instrumentes all the wayes playng and makyng greate melodie ,
which , as ys reported , was as combly donne as neuer was lyke in any
tyme nyghe to our rememberaunce . ORIGIN2,37.006.76

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And so her Grace cam to the Tower on Thursdaye at nyghte , abowte v. of
the clocke , where also was suche a pele of gonnes as hathe not byn
harde lyke a great while before . ORIGIN2,37.006.77

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And the same nyghte , and Frydaye aldaye , the Kyng and Queene taryed
there ; ORIGIN2,37.006.78

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and on Frydaye at nyght the Kyngs Grace made xviij knyghts of the Bathe
, whose creacion was not alonly so strange to here of , as also their
garmentes stranger to beholde or loke on ; whiche said Knightes , the
nexte daye , whiche was Saturday , rydde before the Queene 's grace
thorowte the Citie of London towards Westminster palice , over and
besyds the moste parte of the nobles of the Realme , whiche lyke
accompanied her grace thorowe owte the said citie ; she syttyng in her
heere , upon a Horse Lytter , rychely appareled , and iiij knyghtes of
the v. ports beryng a Canapye over her hedd . ORIGIN2,37.006.79

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And after her cam iiij. riche charettes , one of them emptie , and iij.
other furnysshed with diuerse auncient old lades ; ORIGIN2,37.006.80

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and after them cam a great trayne of other Ladies and gyntillwomen :
whyche said Progresse , from the begynnyng to thendyng , extendid
<P_38> half a myle in leyngthe by estimacion or thereaboute .
ORIGIN2,38.006.81

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
To whome also , as she came alongeste the Citie , was shewid many
costely pagiants , with diverse other encomyes spoken of chyldren to
her ; wyne also runyng at certeyne Condits plentiously .
ORIGIN2,38.006.82

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And so procedyng thorowte the streats , passid furthe vnto Westminster
Hall , where was a certeyn banket prepared for her , which donne , she
was conveyd owte of the bake syde of the palice into a Barge and so
vnto Yorke Place , where the Kyng 's grace was before her comyng ,
ORIGIN2,38.006.83

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for this you muste ever presuppose that his Grace came allwayes before
her secretlye in a Barge aswell frome Grenewyche to the Tower as from
the Tower to Yorke place . ORIGIN2,38.006.84

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Nowe than on Soundaye was the Coronacion , which allso was of such a
maner . ORIGIN2,38.006.85

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
In the mornynge ther assembled withe me at Westminster Churche the
bysshop of Yorke , the Bishop of London , the Bishop of Wynchester ,
the Bishop of Lyncoln , the Bishop of Bathe , and the Bishop of Saint
Asse , the Abbote of Westminstre with x or xij moo Abbottes , whiche
all revestred ourselfs in our pontificalibus , ORIGIN2,38.006.86

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and , soo furnysshed , withe our Crosses and Crossiers , procedid oute
of th'Abbey in a procession unto Westminstre Hall , where we receyved
the Queene apareled in a Robe of purple velvet , and all the ladyes and
gentillwomen in robes and gownes of scarlet accordyng to the maner vsed
before tyme <P_39> in suche besynes : ORIGIN2,39.006.87

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and so her Grace sustayned of eche syde with ij=to= bysshops , the
Bysshope of London ande the Bysshop of Wynchester , came furthe in
processyon unto the Churche of Westminster , she in her here , my Lord
of Suffolke berying before herr the Crowne , and ij=to= other Lords
beryng also before her a Ceptur and a white Rodde , ORIGIN2,39.006.88

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
and so entred up into the highe Alter , where diverse Ceremoneys used
aboute her , I did sett the Crowne on her hedde , and then was songe Te
Deum , &c . ORIGIN2,39.006.89

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And after that was song a solempne Masse , all which while her grace
satt crowned upon a scaffold whiche was made betwene the Highe Alter
and the Qwyer in Westminstre Churche ; which Masse and ceremonyes donne
and fynysshed , all the Assemble of noble men broughte her into
Westminstre Hall agayne , where was kepte a great solempne feaste all
that daye ; ORIGIN2,39.006.90

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
the good ordre therof were to longe to wrytte at this tyme to you .
ORIGIN2,39.006.91

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
But nowe Sir you may nott ymagyn that this Coronacion was before her
mariege , ORIGIN2,39.006.92

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for she was maried muche about sainte Paules daye last , as the
condicion therof dothe well appere by reason she ys nowe sumwhat bygg
with chylde . ORIGIN2,39.006.93

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Notwithstandyng yt hath byn reported thorowte a greate parte of the
realme that I maried her ; whiche was playnly false , ORIGIN2,39.006.94

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for I myself knewe not therof a fortenyght after yt was donne .
ORIGIN2,39.006.95

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And many other thyngs be also reported of me , whiche be mere lyes and
tales . ORIGIN2,39.006.96

<P_40>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
Other newys have we none notable , but that one Fryth , whiche was in
the Tower in pryson , was appoynted by the Kyngs grace to be examyned
befor me , my Lorde of London , my lorde of Wynchestre , my Lorde of
Suffolke , my Lorde Channcelour , and my Lorde of Wylteshere , whose
opynion was so notably erroniouse , that we culde not dyspache hym but
was fayne to leve hym to the determynacion of his Ordinarye , whiche ys
the bishop of London . ORIGIN2,40.006.97

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
His said opynyon ys of suche nature that he thoughte it nat necessary
to be beleved as an Article of our faythe , that ther ys the very
corporall presence of Christe within the Oste and Sacramente of the
Alter , and holdethe of this poynte muste after the Opynion of
Oecolampadious . ORIGIN2,40.006.98

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And suerly I myself sent for hym iij or iiij tymes to perswade hym to
leve that his Imaginacion , ORIGIN2,40.006.99

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
but for all that we could do therin he woulde not applye to any
counsaile , notwithstandyng nowe he ys at a fynall ende with all
examinacions , ORIGIN2,40.006.100

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
for my Lorde of London hathe gyven sentance and delyuerd hym to the
secular power , where he loketh every daye to goo unto the fyer .
ORIGIN2,40.006.101

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And ther ys also condempned with hym one Andrewe a taylour of London
for the said self same opynion . ORIGIN2,40.006.102

{COM:A_PASSAGE_OMITTED}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
And thus farr you well , ORIGIN2,40.006.103

AUTHOR:THOMAS_CRANMER:MALE:_:1489:44
RECIPIENT:NICHOLAS_HAWKINS:MALE:_:1495?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_006:E1:1533:COPY:OTHER
from my manor of Croydon the xvij. daye of June . ORIGIN2,40.006.104

<Q_OR2_D_1535_T_ABOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN2_007> <A_ANNE_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1501?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_45>

{ED:LETTER_CXVI._QUEEN_ANNE_BOLEYN_TO_THOMAS_CROMWELL.}


<P_46>

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Anne the Quene . ORIGIN2,46.007.105

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
By the Quene . ORIGIN2,46.007.106

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Trustie and right welbiloued we grete you well . ORIGIN2,46.007.107

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And where as we be crediblie enformed that the berer hereof Richard
Herman marchaunte and citizen of Antwerpe in Brabant was in the tyme of
the late lorde Cardynall put and expelled frome his fredome and
felowshipe of and in the Englishe house there , for nothing ells
<paren> as he affermethe </paren> but oonly for that that he dyd
bothe-2 with his gooddis and pollicie , to his greate hurte and
hynderans in this Worlde , helpe to the settyng forthe of the Newe
Testamente in Englisshe . We therefore desire and instantly praye you
that with all spede and favoure convenient ye woll cause this good and
honeste marchaunt , being my Lordis true faithfull and loving subjecte
, restored to his pristine fredome , libertie , and felowshipe
aforesaid , and the soner at this oure requeste , and at your good
leyser to here hym in suche thinges as he hathe {in} to make further
relacion unto you in this behalf . ORIGIN2,46.007.108

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Yeven undir our Signete at my Lordis manoure of Grenewiche the
xiiij=th= daye of May . ORIGIN2,46.007.109

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:34?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_007:E1:1535:UNKNOWN:OTHER
To our trustie and right welbeloved Thomas Crumwell squyer Chief
Secretary unto my Lorde the Kings Highnes . ORIGIN2,46.007.110

<Q_OR2_D_1530S_T_JROCHEFORD> <L_ORIGIN2_008> <A_JANE_ROCHEFORD>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_67>

{ED:LETTER_CXXIV._LADY_ROCHEFORD_TO_SECRETARY_CROMWELL.}


AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Mayster Secretory , as a power desolat wydow wythoute comffort , as to
my specyall trust under God and my Pryns , I have me most humbly
recommendyd unto youe ; prayng youe , after your accustemyd gentyll
maner to all them that be in suche lamentabull case as I ame in , to be
meane to the Kyngs gracyous Hyghnes for me for suche power stuffe and
plate as my husbonde had , whome God pardon ; that of hys gracyous and
mere lyberalyte I may have hyt to helpe me to my power lyvyng , whiche
to his Hyghnes ys nothynge to be regardyd , and to me schuld be a most
hygh helpe and souccor . ORIGIN2,67.008.111

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And farther more , where that the <P_68> Kyngs Hyghnes and my Lord my
father payed great soms of money for my Joynter to the Errell of
Wyltchere to the some off too thowsand Marks , and I not assuryd of no
more duryng the sayd Errells naturall lyff then one hundreth Marke ;
whyche ys veary hard for me to schyffte the worldd wythall . That youe
wyll so specyally tender me in thys behalff as to enforme the Kyngs
Hyghnes of these premysses , wherby I may the more tenderly be regardyd
of hys gracyous persone , ORIGIN2,68.008.112

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
youre Worde in thys schall be to me a sure helpe : ORIGIN2,68.008.113

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and God schall be to youe therfore a sure reward , whyche dothe promes
good to them that dothe helpe powere forsaken Wydos .
ORIGIN2,68.008.114

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And bothe my prayer and servys schall helpe to thys duryng my naturall
lyff , as most bounden so to doo , ORIGIN2,68.008.115

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
God my wyttnes ; whoo ever more preserve you . ORIGIN2,68.008.116

AUTHOR:JANE_ROCHEFORD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_008:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Jane Rocheford . ORIGIN2,68.008.117

<Q_OR2_A_1537_T_JMESSYNDYNE> <L_ORIGIN2_009> <A_JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_6>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_74>

{ED:LETTER_THE_PRIORESS_AND_CONVENT_OF_THE_CISTERCIAN_NUNNERY_O
F_LEGBORNE_IN_LINCOLNSHIRE_TO_THEIR_FOUNDER.}

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honourable our most synguler Maister and Founder , our duetie in
the humblest wise presupposed , with dayly prayer , as your perpetuall
and religious beedwomen . Please yt your goodnes to undirstonde , that
where as Almyghty God hath indued you w=t= just title Founder of the
Pryory of Legborne to <P_75> the great comfort of me and all my systers
: we doo and shall alweyes submit ourselfs to youre most rightuouse
commaundement and ordre , oonly puttyng our comfort in your goodnesse
for all causes concernyng your poure Pryory of Legbourne .
ORIGIN2,75.009.118

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as we doo here that a grete nombre of Abbyes $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} punysshed , subprest , and put downe bicause of their
myslyvyng ; and that all Abbyes and Pryores undir the value of CC=li=.
be at our moste noble Prynce 's pleasure to subpresse and put downe .
Yet if it may pleas your goodnes , we trust in God ye shall here no
compleynts agaynst us , nother-3 in our lyvyng nor hospitalitie kepyng
. In consideracion wherof if it may please your goodnes , in our great
necessitie , to be a meane and sewter for your owne powre Pryory , that
it maye be preserved and stond , you $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} a more
higher Founder to vs than he that first foundid oure Howse .
ORIGIN2,75.009.119

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have noon othir comfort nor refuge but oonly unto your goodnes ,
ORIGIN2,75.009.120

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we hooly submyt our selfs to the pleasure of God , to the pleasure
of our Prynce , and to the pleasure of you our Founder ;
ORIGIN2,75.009.121

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and how soever it shall please God that we $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
orderid , we shall continue your faithfull and dayly bedewomen . As
knoweth oure Lorde who ever preserve you to your most comfort .
ORIGIN2,75.009.122

AUTHOR:JANE_MESSYNDYNE_&:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_6:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_009:E1:1537:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= owne dayly beadwomen Jane Messyndyne <font> Pryores and </font>
sisters <font> of the </font> pryory <font> of </font> Legborne .
ORIGIN2,75.009.123

<Q_OR2_A_1530S?_T_JLONDON> <L_ORIGIN2_010> <A_JOHN_LONDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1486?> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_79>

{ED:LETTER_CXXIX._DR._JOHN_LONDON_TO_LORD_CROMWELL.}


AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In my most humble maner I have me commendyd unto yowr gude lordeschippe
, acertenyng the same that I have pullyd down the Image of o=r= Ladye
at Caversham wherunto wasse great pilgremage . ORIGIN2,79.010.124

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Image ys platyd over with sylver , ORIGIN2,79.010.125

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have putte yt in a cheste fast lackyd and naylyd uppe ,
ORIGIN2,79.010.126

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by the next bardge that commythe from Reding to London yt shall be
browght to yo=r= Lordeschippe . ORIGIN2,79.010.127

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have also pullyd down the place she stode in w=t= all other
ceremonyes , as lights , schrds , crowchys , and imagies of wex hangyng
abowt the chapel , ORIGIN2,79.010.128

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have defacyed the same thorowly in exchuyng of any farther resortt
thedyr . ORIGIN2,79.010.129

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thys chapell dydde belong to Notley abbey , ORIGIN2,79.010.130

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther always wasse a chanon of that monastery wiche wasse callyd the
Warden of Caversham , ORIGIN2,79.010.131

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he songe in thys chapell ORIGIN2,79.010.132

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hadde the offerings for hys lyving . ORIGIN2,79.010.133

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He wasse acustomyd to schew many prety relyks , <P_80> among the wiche
wer <paren> as he made reportt </paren> the holy dager that kylled
Kinge Henry ; and the holy knyfe that kylled Seynt Edwarde .
ORIGIN2,80.010.134

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All thees w=t= many other , with the cots of thys image , her cappe and
here , my servant shall bring unto yo=r= Lordeshippe thys weke w=t= the
Surrendre of the Freers undre ther covent seale , and ther seale also .
ORIGIN2,80.010.135

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have sent the chanon home agen to Notleye , ORIGIN2,80.010.136

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have made fast the doores of the chapell , wiche ys thorowly well
covered with ledde : ORIGIN2,80.010.137

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if it be yo=r= lordeships pleasur I shall se yt made suer to the
Kings Grace 's use . ORIGIN2,80.010.138

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it be nott so orderyd , the chapell stondith so wildely that the
ledde will be stolyn by nyzt , as I wasse servyd at the Fryers ;
ORIGIN2,80.010.139

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as soon as I hadde taken the Fryers surrendre , the multytude of
the poverty of the Town resortyd thedyr ORIGIN2,80.010.140

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all thinge that myzt be hadde they stole away : insomyche that they
hadde convayd the very clapers of the bellys . ORIGIN2,80.010.141

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And saving that M. Fachell , wiche made me great chere at hys howse ,
and the Mayer dydde assist me they wolde have made no litell spoyle .
ORIGIN2,80.010.142

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In thys I have don as moche as I cowde do to save every thing to the
Kings graces use , as shall apper to yo=r= Lordeschippe at the
begynnyng of the terme , Godde willing , who w=t= increse of moche
honor long preserve yo=r= gudde Lordeschippe . ORIGIN2,80.010.143

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Redinge xvij=o= Septembris . ORIGIN2,80.010.144

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Caversham ys a propre lodginge wher the chanon lay , with a fayer
garden and an orcherd mete to be <P_81> bestowed upon som frynde of
yo=r= lordeschips in thees parties ; ORIGIN2,81.010.145

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the chanon had no thing to do ther butt to kepe the chapell and
receyve the offrings . ORIGIN2,81.010.146

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I besek your gudde Lordeschippe to admytt me a powr sutar for thees
honest men of Redinge . ORIGIN2,81.010.147

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They have a fayer town and many gudde occupiers in ytt ;
ORIGIN2,81.010.148

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
butt they lacke that howse necessary , of the wiche for the
mynystration of Justice thay have most nede of . ORIGIN2,81.010.149

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ther Town Hall ys a very small Howse ORIGIN2,81.010.150

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and stondith upon the ryver , wher ys the commyn wassching place of the
most part of the Town ; ORIGIN2,81.010.151

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the cession dayes and other cowrt dayes ther ys such betyng with
batildores , as oon man can nott here another , nor the guest here the
chardg gevyng . ORIGIN2,81.010.152

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The body of the Church of the Grey fryers , wiche ys selyd with laths
and lyme , wold be a very commodoise rowme for them .
ORIGIN2,81.010.153

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now I have rydde all the fasschen of that Churche in parcloses ,
ymages , and awlters , it wolde mak a gudly Town Hall .
ORIGIN2,81.010.154

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Mayer of that Town , M=r= Richard Turner , a very honest jentill
person with many other honest men hathe expressyd unto me ther gref in
thys behalf , ORIGIN2,81.010.155

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have desyred me to be an humble sutar unto your Lordeschippe for
the same if it schulde be solde . ORIGIN2,81.010.156

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The wallys , besyd the coyne stonys , be butt chalk and flynt , and the
coveryng butt tile . ORIGIN2,81.010.157

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it please the King 's Grace to bestow that howse upon any of hys
servants , he may spare the body of the <P_82> churche , wich stondith
next the strete , very well ; and yet have rowme sufficient for a great
man . ORIGIN2,82.010.158

AUTHOR:JOHN_LONDON:MALE:_:1486?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_010:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your most bounden orator and servant , John London . ORIGIN2,82.010.159

<Q_OR2_A_1530S?_T_JFOSTER> <L_ORIGIN2_011> <A_JOHN_FOSTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_CROMWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1485?>

<P_111>

{ED:LETTER_CXLI._JOHN_FOSTER_TO_LORD_CROMWELL.}


AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In my most humblyst wyse , I beyng not so bold as to appere before
youre Lordshyp untyll your plesure <P_112> ys knowyn , feere sett
appartt , nede compellythe me to wrytt . ORIGIN2,112.011.160

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thys last Lentt I dyd no lesse then wrytt , ORIGIN2,112.011.161

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also to your presence I dyd approche , suyng for your lordschyppys
gracious servyce ; ORIGIN2,112.011.162

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but now my sute ys muche other , ORIGIN2,112.011.163

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my dysfortune hathe byn to have conceyvyd untruly Goddys worde ,
and not only with yntellectyon to have thought yt , ORIGIN2,112.011.164

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but exteryally and really I have fulfyllyd the same ;
ORIGIN2,112.011.165

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I , as then beyng a preste , have accompleschyd maryage ; nothyng
pretendyng but as an obedyentt subyect . ORIGIN2,112.011.166

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For yf the Kyngys Grace could have founde yt lawfull that prestys mught
have byn maryd , they wold have byn to the Crowne dubbyll and dubbyll
faythefull , furst in love , secondly for fere that the Bysshope of
Rome schuld sette yn hys powre unto ther desolacyon .
ORIGIN2,112.011.167

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But now by the noyse of the peopull I perseyve I have dunne amysce ,
which saythe that the Kyngy serudyte yugementt with all hys cowncell
temperall and spyrytuall hathe stableschyd a contrary order , that all
prestys $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} separat by a day ; with which order I
have contentyd my selfe : ORIGIN2,112.011.168

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as sone as I herd it to be tru , I sentt the woman to her frendys
iij. score mylys from me , ORIGIN2,112.011.169

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spedely and with all celeryte I have resorted hether to desyre the
Kyngs Hyghtnes of hys favor and absolucyon for my amysce doyng ; prayng
and besechyng your Lordschypps gracyous cumfortt for the optaynyng of
hys gracyous pardon : ORIGIN2,112.011.170

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} your bounden servauntt yn hartt and
also yn <P_113> contynnuall servyse yf yt schall please your gracyous
lordschypp to accept yt duryng my lyfe : ORIGIN2,113.011.171

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
wrythyn the xviij. day of June . ORIGIN2,113.011.172

AUTHOR:JOHN_FOSTER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_CROMWELL:MALE:_:1485?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_011:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your bounden for ever , John Foster . ORIGIN2,113.011.173

<Q_OR2_D_1540S_T_10LADIES> <L_ORIGIN2_012> <A_NAMES_UNKNOWN_19>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_126>

{ED:LETTER_TEN_LADIES_OF_THE_COURT,_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}_C
ODE

AUTHOR:NAMES_UNKNOWN_19:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_012:E1:1540S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Most gratiouse and benigne sovraigne Lorde , please it your Highnes to
understonde that wee have seene and beene in your newe Greate Shippe ,
and the rest of your shippes at Portismowth , wiche arr things so
goodlie to beeholde , that , in our liefs wee have not seene <paren>
excepting your royall person and my lord the Prince your sonne </paren>
a more pleasaunt sight ; for wiche , and the most bountiful gifts , the
chere and most gratiouse enterteignment , wich your Grace hath
vouchsavid to bestowe upon us your most unworthie and humble servaunts
, wee rendre and send unto the same our most humble and entier thanks
wich wee beseche <P_127> your Ma=tie= to acceept in good parte ,
advertising the same that there rest nowe but only ij. sorowes ; the
tone for lacke of your royall presence that ye might have seene your
said Shippes , nowe at this tyme whan wee might have waited on you here
; the toodre that wee thinke long til it may eftsones lieke you to have
us with you , wiche wee all most hertely beseche our Lord God may bee
shortely ; who preserve your most noble person , and my Lord Prince ,
and graunte you bothe to reigne over us ; Your Majesty many yeris , His
Grace with long continuance but by late succession , as never Princes
did before You . ORIGIN2,127.012.174

AUTHOR:NAMES_UNKNOWN_19:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_012:E1:1540S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
From Your Majesties havon and towne of Portismowth the iiij=th=. of
August . ORIGIN2,127.012.175

AUTHOR:NAMES_UNKNOWN_19:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_012:E1:1540S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Yo=r= Highnes most bounden and humble servaunts , and beadwomen Mabyell
Sowthampton Margaret Taylebois , Margrett Howarde , Alys Browne . Anne
Knevytt . Jane Denny . Jane Meows Anne Basset Elizabeth Tyrwhyt
Elsabeth Harvy . ORIGIN2,127.012.176

<Q_OR2_A_1546_FN_EDWARD6> <L_ORIGIN2_013> <A_EDWARD_TUDOR_VI>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1537> <R_CATHERINE_PARR>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_1512>

<P_131>

{ED:LETTER_CXLIX._PRINCE_EDWARD_TO_QUEEN_CATHERINE_PARR.}


AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:SON:1537:9
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:MOTHER:1512:34
LETTER:ORIGIN2_013:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Most honorable and entirely beloued mother , I have me most humbli
recommended to your Grace w=t= lyke thankes , both-1 for y=t= your
Grace did accepte so gentylly my simple and rude letters , and also
y=t= it pleased your Grace so gentylly to vowchesaufe to directe unto
me your louing and tendre letters , which do geue me much comfort and
encouragement to go forward in such thinges wherein your Grace bereath
me on hand , y=t= I am alredy entered . ORIGIN2,131.013.177

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:SON:1537:9
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:MOTHER:1512:34
LETTER:ORIGIN2_013:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God I maie be hable in part to satisfy the good expectation of
the Kings Maiesti my father and of your Grace , whom God have ever in
his most blessed keping . ORIGIN2,131.013.178

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:SON:1537:9
RECIPIENT:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:MOTHER:1512:34
LETTER:ORIGIN2_013:E1:1546:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your louing sonne E. Prince . ORIGIN2,131.013.179

<Q_OR2_A_1547_FN_HRADCLIFFE> <L_ORIGIN2_014> <A_HENRY_RADCLIFFE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1506?>
<R_ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_137>

{ED:LETTER_CLV._HENRY_RADCLYF,_EARL_OF_SUSSEX,_TO_HIS_COUNTESS.}


AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Madame with most lovyng and hertie commendacions , thies be to signifie
unto you that our late Soveraigne Lord the King departed at Westminster
uppon Friday last the xxviij=ti=. of this instant Januarie about two of
the clock in the mornyng . And the Kings Majestie that nowe is
proclaymed King this present last day of the same moneth .
ORIGIN2,137.014.180

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And lik as for the departure of th'on wee may lament , so for
th'establisshment of thother to all our comforts we may rejoyce .
ORIGIN2,137.014.181

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The names of his Executours ar th'archbischop of Canterburie , the Lord
Wriothesley lord Chauncelor of Englond , the Lord St. John lord
president of the Counsaile and Gret Master , the Lord Russell Lord
Privie Seale , the Erle of Hertford lord Great Chamberlein of Englond ,
the Viscount Lesley lord Admiral , the bishop of Derham , Mr.
Secretarie Paget , Sir Anthonie Denie , Sir Anthonie Browne , Sir
William Herbert , The Chief Justice of the Common Place , Bromley
another Justice ther , Sir Thomas Baker Chauncelor of the tenthes , Sir
Edward North , and divers other aidours to the same , which for lak of
tyme I pretermit . ORIGIN2,137.014.182

<P_138>

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Parliament is clerely dissolved : the Terme and all writs closed .
ORIGIN2,138.014.183

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Court is nowe at the Tower from whens the Kings Majestie tomorrow
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} receyved and conducted to his Hous
Derchamplace . ORIGIN2,138.014.184

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His Hyghnes Coronacion $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} at Shrovetyme .
ORIGIN2,138.014.185

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For my oone matiers hetherto , thorough the gret and diligent busines
that my lord Chauncelor hath had , I could espye no tyme mete to the
purpoos ; ORIGIN2,138.014.186

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but shal nevertheles as sone as oportunitie may serve set forth the
same . ORIGIN2,138.014.187

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for your repaire hether in th'end of this weke I shall send unto
you Henry Northey , by whom you shal knowe my determynat pleasur .
ORIGIN2,138.014.188

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the meane tyme I require you to put all soch things in order as
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} mete for you here . ORIGIN2,138.014.189

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus , good Madame albeit the contents of your Lettres diverslie at
length tending to the lak of good wil in me that ought to be in a
lovyng husband ; the same nevertheles as I think proceding of a good
hert might otherwise have bin qualified I wisse to you my owne hert as
to my self . ORIGIN2,138.014.190

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Eliplace in Holborne the last day of January in the first yere of
the reigne of our Soveraigne King Edward the Sixeth .
ORIGIN2,138.014.191

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your assured lovyng husbond Henry Sussex . ORIGIN2,138.014.192

AUTHOR:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:HUSBAND:1506?:41?
RECIPIENT:ANNE_RADCLIFFE[N.CALTHORPE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_014:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my wief The Countas of Sussex . ORIGIN2,138.014.193

<Q_OR2_A_1550S?_FN_ELIZABETH1> <L_ORIGIN2_015> <A_ELIZABETH_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1533> <R_EDWARD_TUDOR_VI>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1537>

<P_145>

{ED:LETTER_CLX._THE_PRINCESS_ELIZABETH_TO_KING_EDWARD_VI=TH=.}


AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Like as a shipman in stormy wether plukes downe the sailes tarijnge for
bettar winde , so did I , most noble Kinge , in my vnfortunate chanche
a thurday pluk downe the hie sailes of my ioy and comfort
ORIGIN2,145.015.194

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and do trust one day that as troblesome waues have repulsed me bakwarde
, so a gentil winde wil bringe me forwarde to my hauen .
ORIGIN2,145.015.195

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Two chief occasions moued me muche and griued me gretly , the one for
that I douted your Maiesties helthe , the other bicause for al my longe
tarijnge I wente without that I <P_146> came for . ORIGIN2,146.015.196

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of the first I am releued in a parte , bothe that I vnderstode of your
helthe , and also that your Maiesties loginge is far from my Lorde
Marques chamber . ORIGIN2,146.015.197

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of my other grief I am not eased , ORIGIN2,146.015.198

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the best is that whatsoever other folkes wil suspect , I intende
not to feare your graces goodwil , wiche as I knowe that I never
disarued to faint , so I trust wil stil stike by me .
ORIGIN2,146.015.199

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For if your Graces aduis that I shulde retourne <paren> whos wil is a
commandemente </paren> had not bine , I wold not haue made the halfe of
my way , the ende of my iourney . ORIGIN2,146.015.200

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus as one desirous to hire of your Maiesties helth , thogth
vnfortunat to se it , I shal pray God for euer to preserue you .
ORIGIN2,146.015.201

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Hatfilde this present Saterday . ORIGIN2,146.015.202

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your Maiesties humble sistar to commandemente Elizabeth .
ORIGIN2,146.015.203

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_015:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To the Kinges most excellent Maiestie . ORIGIN2,146.015.204

<Q_OR2_A_1550S?_FN_ELIZABETH1> <L_ORIGIN2_016> <A_ELIZABETH_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1533> <R_EDWARD_TUDOR_VI>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1537>

<P_146>

{ED:LETTER_CLXI._THE_PRINCESS_ELIZABETH_TO_KING_EDWARD_VI=TH=.}


AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Like as the richeman that dayly gathereth riches to riches , and to one
bag of mony layeth a greate sort <P_147> til it come to infinit , so
$me $thinks {TEXT:methinkes} your Maiestie , not beinge suffised withe
many benefits and gentilnes shewed to me afore this time , dothe now
increase them in askinge and desiring wher you may bid and commaunde ,
requiring a thinge not worthy the desiringe for it selfe , but made
worthy for your Higthnes request . ORIGIN2,147.016.205

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My pictur I mene , in wiche if the inward good mynde towarde your grace
migth as wel be declared as the outwarde face and countenaunce shal be
seen , I wold nor haue taried the commandement but preuent it , nor
have bine the last to graunt but the first to offer it .
ORIGIN2,147.016.206

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For the face , I graunt , I might wel blusche to offer ,
ORIGIN2,147.016.207

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the mynde I shal neuer be ashamed to present . ORIGIN2,147.016.208

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For thogth from the grace of the pictur the coulers may fade by time ,
may giue by wether , may be spotted by chance ; yet the other nor time
with her swift winges shal ouertake , ORIGIN2,147.016.209

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor the mistie cloudes with ther loweringes may darken ,
ORIGIN2,147.016.210

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor chance with her slipery fote may ouerthrow . ORIGIN2,147.016.211

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of this althogth yet the profe coulde not be greate bicause the
occasions hathe bine but smal , notwithstandinge as a dog hathe a daye
, so may I perchaunce have time to declare it in dides wher now I do
write them but in wordes . ORIGIN2,147.016.212

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And further I shal most humbly beseche your Maiestie that whan you shal
loke on my pictur , you wil witsafe to thinke that as you haue but the
outwarde shadow of the body afore you , so my inward <P_148> minde
wischeth that the body it selfe wer oftner in your presence ;
ORIGIN2,148.016.213

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
howbeit bicause bothe my so beinge I thinke coulde do your Maiestie
litel pleasur , thogth my selfe great good ; and againe bicause I se as
yet not the time agreing therunto , I shal lerne to folow this sainge
of Orace , " Feras non culpes quod vitari non potest . "
ORIGIN2,148.016.214

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus I wil <paren> troblinge your Maiestie I fere </paren> ende
with my most humble thankes . ORIGIN2,148.016.215

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Besechinge God longe to preserue you to his honour , to your comfort ,
to the realmes profit , and to my joy . ORIGIN2,148.016.216

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Hatfilde this 15 day of May . ORIGIN2,148.016.217

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1533:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_016:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your Maiesties most humbly sistar Elizabeth . ORIGIN2,148.016.218

<Q_OR2_A_1550S?_FO_EDWARD6> <L_ORIGIN2_017> <A_EDWARD_TUDOR_VI>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_1537> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_148>

{ED:LETTER_CLXII._KING_EDWARD_THE_SIXTH,_TO_THE_DUKE_OF_SOMERSET.}


AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:NEPHEW:1537:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:UNCLE:1500?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_017:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Derest Vncle , by your lettres and reporte of the messenger , we have
at good length vnderstanded to our great comfort , the good success it
hathe pleased God to graunt vs against the Scottes by your good courage
and wise forsight ; for the wich and other the benefites of God heaped
vpon vs , like as we ar most bounden to yeld him most humble thankes ,
and to <P_149> seke bi all waies {by} we mai his true honour , so do we
give unto you , good Vncle , our most hartie thankes , praying you to
thanke also most hartelie in our name our good Cosin therle of Warwike
, and all the othere of the noble men , gentlemen , and others that
have served in this iournei , of whose service , they shall all be well
assured , ORIGIN2,149.017.219

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:NEPHEW:1537:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:UNCLE:1500?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_017:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
we will not <paren> God graunte us lief </paren> shew our selfes
vnmindfull , but be redy ever to consider the same as anie occasion
shall serve . ORIGIN2,149.017.220

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:NEPHEW:1537:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:UNCLE:1500?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_017:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yeven at our house of Otlandes , the eighteneth of September .
ORIGIN2,149.017.221

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:NEPHEW:1537:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:UNCLE:1500?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_017:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your good neuew Edward . ORIGIN2,149.017.222

AUTHOR:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:NEPHEW:1537:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:UNCLE:1500?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN2_017:E1:1550S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To our derest Vncle the Duke of Somerset . ORIGIN2,149.017.223

<Q_OR2_A_1547_T_MARY1> <L_ORIGIN2_018> <A_MARY_TUDOR_I>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1516> <R_THOMAS_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1509?>

<P_149>

{ED:LETTER_CLXIII._THE_PRINCESS_MARY_TO_THE_LORD_ADMIRAL_SEYMOUR.}


<P_150>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde after my harty commendacions theyse $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
to declare to you that accordyng to your accoustomed gentilnes I have
receyved six warrants from you by your seruant thys berer , for the
whiche I do gyve you my harty thanks ; by whom also I have receyved
your lettre , wherin <paren> as me thynketh </paren> I parceyv strange
newes concernyng a sewte you have in hande to the Quene for maryage ;
for the soner obtayneng wherof you seme to thynke that my lettres
myghte do you pleasure . ORIGIN2,150.018.224

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde in thys case , I truste , your wysdome doth consyder , that ,
if it weer for my nereste kynsman & dereste frend on lyve , of all
other creatures in the worlde , it standeth lest w=t= my poore honoure
to be a medler in thys matter , consyderyng whose wyef her grace was of
late ; ORIGIN2,150.018.225

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and besyds that , if she be mynded to grawnt your sewte , my lettres
shall do you but small pleasure . ORIGIN2,150.018.226

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On the other syde , if the remembrance of the Kyngs mayestye my father
<paren> whose soule God pardon </paren> wyll not suffre her to grawnt
your sewte , I am nothyng able to perswade her to forget the losse of
hyme , who is as yet very rype in myn owne remembrance . Wherfore I
shall moste earnestlye requyre you <paren> the premysses consydered
</paren> to thynke non vnkyndnes in me , thoughe I refuse to be a
medler any wayes in thys matter , assuryng you , that <paren> woweng
matters set aparte , wherin I beeng a mayde am nothyng connyng </paren>
if otherwayes it shall lye in my litle power to do you playser , I
<P_151> $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} as gladde to do it , as you to requyre
it , both for hys blodds sake that you be of , and also for the
gentylnes whiche I have alwayes fownde in you . As knoweth almyghty God
, to whose tuicyon I commytte you . ORIGIN2,151.018.227

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Wansted thys Saterday at nyghte beeng the iiij=th= of June .
ORIGIN2,151.018.228

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:31
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_018:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frend to my power , Marye . ORIGIN2,151.018.229

<Q_OR2_A_1547_FN_CPARR> <L_ORIGIN2_019> <A_CATHERINE_PARR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_1512> <R_THOMAS_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1509?>

<P_151>

{ED:LETTER_CLXIV._THE_QUEEN_DOWAGER_TO_THE_LORD_ADMIRAL_SEYMOUR.}


AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord As I gether by your Letter delyvered to my brother Harbert , ye
ar in sum fere how to frame my lord your brother to speke in your
favour ; ORIGIN2,151.019.230

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the denyall of yowr request schall make hys foly more manyfest to the
world , wyche wyll more greve me than the want of hys spekyng .
ORIGIN2,151.019.231

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold not wyssche yow importune for hys good wyll ,
ORIGIN2,151.019.232

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yf yt com nott frankely at the fyrst , yt $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe}
suffycyent ones to have requyre yt , and <P_152> after to cesse .
ORIGIN2,152.019.233

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold desyre ye myght obtayne the Kynge 's Letters in yowre favour ,
and also the ayde and furtherans of the moost notable of the Counsell ,
suche as ye schall thynke convenyent , wyche thynge obtayned $shall $be
{TEXT:schalbe} no small schame to yowr brother and lovyng syster , in
case they do not the lyke . ORIGIN2,152.019.234

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lord where as ye charge me w=t= apromys wryttin w=t= myne one hand ,
to chaunge the two yeres into two monethes , I thynke ye have no suche
playne sentence wrytten w=t= my hand ; ORIGIN2,152.019.235

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I knowe not wether ye be aparaphryser or not , ORIGIN2,152.019.236

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yf ye be lerned in that syence yt ys possyble ye may of one worde make
ahole sentence , and yett nott at all tymes after the true meanyng of
the wryter ; as yt aperyth by thys your exposycyon apon my wryttyng .
ORIGIN2,152.019.237

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Whan yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} yowr pleasur to repayre hether ye must
take sum payne to come erly in the mornyng , that ye may be gone agayne
by seven aclocke ORIGIN2,152.019.238

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I suppose ye may come without suspect . ORIGIN2,152.019.239

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow lett me have knowlege ver nyght at what hower ye wyll come ,
that yowr porteresse may wayte at the gate to the feldes for yow .
ORIGIN2,152.019.240

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus wyth my most humble and harty comendatyons I take my leve of
yow for thys tyme gyvyng yow lyke thankes for yowr comyng to the court
whan I was there . ORIGIN2,152.019.241

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Chelsey . ORIGIN2,152.019.242

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wyll kepe in store tyll I speke w=t= yow my lordes <P_153> large
offer for Fausterne , at wyche tyme I $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} glad to
knowe your further pleasur therein . ORIGIN2,153.019.243

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By her y=t= ys and $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} yowr humble true and
lovyng wyffe duryng her lyf Kateryn the Quene . ORIGIN2,153.019.244

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
K. P. ORIGIN2,153.019.245

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lorde I have a requeste to make unto your Grace wiche feare has made
me omitte til this time for two causes , the one bicause I sawe that my
request for the rumors wiche were sprede abrode of me toke so litel
place , wiche thinge whan I considered I thogth I shulde litel profit
in any other sute , ORIGIN2,153.019.246

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
howbeit now I <P_154> understande that ther is a Proclamacion for them
<paren> for the wiche I give your Grace and the rest of the counsel
most humble thankes </paren> I am the bolder to speake for a nother
thinge ; ORIGIN2,154.019.247

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the other was bicause paraventure your Lordeship and the rest of
the Counsel wil thinke that I favor her ivel doinge for whome I shal
speake for , wiche is for Kateryn Aschiley , that it wolde please your
grace and the rest of the Counsel to be good unto her . Wiche thing I
do not to favor her in any ivel , <paren> for that I wolde be sorye to
do , </paren> but for thes consideracions wiche folowe , the wiche hope
dothe teache me in sainge that I ought not to doute but that your Grace
and the rest of the Counsel wil thinke that I do it for thre other
consideracions . ORIGIN2,154.019.248

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
First , bicause that she hathe bene with me a longe time , and manye
years , and hathe taken great labor , and paine in brinkinge of me up
in lerninge and honestie , ORIGIN2,154.019.249

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore I ougth of very dewtye speke for her , ORIGIN2,154.019.250

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Saint Gregorie sayeth that we ar more bounde to them that bringeth
us up wel than to our parents , ORIGIN2,154.019.251

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for our parents do that wiche is natural for them , that is bringeth us
into this Worlde ; ORIGIN2,154.019.252

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but our brinkers up ar a cause to make us live wel in it .
ORIGIN2,154.019.253

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The seconde is bicause I thinke that whatsoever she hathe done in my
Lorde Admirals matter as concerninge the marijnge of me , she dide it
bicause knowinge him to be one of the Counsel , she thogth he wolde not
go about any suche thinge without he had the Counsels consent <P_155>
therunto ; ORIGIN2,155.019.254

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I have harde her manye times say that she wolde never have me mary
in any place without your Graces and the Counsels consente .
ORIGIN2,155.019.255

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The thirde cause is bicause that it shal and doth make men thinke that
I am not clere of the dide myselfe , but that it is pardoned in me
bicause of my youthe , bicause that she I loved so wel is in suche a
place . ORIGIN2,155.019.256

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus hope prevailinge more with me than feare , hath wone the battel ;
ORIGIN2,155.019.257

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I have at this time gone furth with it . Wiche I pray God be taken
no other wais that it is mente . ORIGIN2,155.019.258

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Writen in hast . ORIGIN2,155.019.259

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Frome Hatfilde this 7 day of Marche . ORIGIN2,155.019.260

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also if I may be so bolde not offendinge I beseche your Grace and the
rest of the Counsel to be good to master Aschiley her husbonde , wiche
bicause he is my kindesman I wold be glad he shulde do well .
ORIGIN2,155.019.261

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your assured frende to my litel power Elizabeth . ORIGIN2,155.019.262

AUTHOR:CATHERINE_PARR:FEMALE:WIFE:1512:35
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SEYMOUR:MALE:HUSBAND:1509?:38?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_019:E1:1547:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my verey good Lorde my Lorde Protector . ORIGIN2,155.019.263

<Q_OR2_A_1549_T_ELIZABETH1> <L_ORIGIN2_020> <A_ELIZABETH_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1533> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_155>

{ED:LETTER_CLXVI._THE_PRINCESS_ELIZABETH_TO_THE_LORD_PROTECTOR.}


<P_156>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde havinge reseuede your Lordeships letters , I parceve in them
your goodwil towarde me bicause you declare to me plainlie your mynde
in this thinge ; and againe for that you wolde not wische that I shulde
do any thinge that shulde not seme good unto the Counsel , for the
wiche thinge I give you most hartie thankes . ORIGIN2,156.020.264

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wheras I do understande that you do take in ivel parte the letters
that I did write unto your Lordeshipe , I am verye sorie that you
shulde take them so ORIGIN2,156.020.265

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my mynde was to declare unto you plainlie as I thoght in that
thinge , wiche I did also the more willingelye bicause <paren> as I
write to you </paren> you desired me to be plaine with you in al
thinges . ORIGIN2,156.020.266

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as concerninge that pointe that you write that I seme to stande in
my none witte in beinge so wel assured of my none selfe , I did assure
me of my selfe nomore than I trust the trueth shal trie ;
ORIGIN2,156.020.267

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to say that wiche I knewe of my selfe I did not thinke shulde have
displeased the Counsel or your Grace . ORIGIN2,156.020.268

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And surelye the cause whie that I was sorye that ther shulde be anye
suche aboute me , was bicause that I thogth the people wil say that I
deserved throwgth my lewde demenure to have such a one , and not that I
mislike any thinge that your Lordeshipe or the Counsel shal thinke good
, for I knowe that you and the Counsel ar charged with me ; or that I
tak upon me to rule my selfe , ORIGIN2,156.020.269

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I knowe the ar most disceved that trusteth most in themselves ,
wherfore I trust you shal never finde that faute in me , to <P_157> the
wiche thinge I do not se that your Grace has made anye directe answere
at this time , ORIGIN2,157.020.270

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seinge the make so ivel reportes alreadie , $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} but a increasinge of ther ivel tonges .
ORIGIN2,157.020.271

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeit you did write that if I wolde bringe forthe anye that had
reported it , You and the Counsel wolde se it redreste , wiche thinge
thogth I can easelye do it , I wolde be lothe to do it for bicause it
is my none cause ; ORIGIN2,157.020.272

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , againe , that shulde be but a bridinge of a ivel name of me that
am glade to ponesse them , ORIGIN2,157.020.273

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so get the ivel wil of the people , wiche thinge I wolde be lothe
to have . ORIGIN2,157.020.274

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if it mougth so seme good unto your Lordeshipe and the reste of the
Counsel to sende forthe a proclamation in to the countries that the
refraine ther tonges , declaringe how the tales be but lies , it shulde
make bothe the people thinke that You and the Counsel have great
regarde that no suche rumors shulde be spreade of anye of the Kinges
Maiesties Sisters , as I am , thougth vnwordie , ORIGIN2,157.020.275

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also I shulde thinke myselfe to receve suche frendeshipe at your
handes as you have promised me , althogth your Lordeship hathe shewed
me greate alreadie . ORIGIN2,157.020.276

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeit I am aschamed to aske it anye more , bicause I se you ar not so
wel minded therunto . ORIGIN2,157.020.277

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as concerninge that you saye that I give folkes occasion to thinke
in refusinge the good to vpholde the ivel , I am not of so simple
understandinge , ORIGIN2,157.020.278

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor I wolde that your Grace shulde have so ivel a opinion of me that I
have so litel <P_158> respecte to my none honestie that I wolde
mainteine it if I had souficiente promis of the same ,
ORIGIN2,158.020.279

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so your Grace shal prove me whan it comes to the pointe .
ORIGIN2,158.020.280

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus I bid you farewel , desiringe God alwais to assiste you in al
your affaires . ORIGIN2,158.020.281

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen in hast . ORIGIN2,158.020.282

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Frome Hatfelde this 21 of Februarye . ORIGIN2,158.020.283

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your assured frende to my litel power Elizabeth . ORIGIN2,158.020.284

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:16
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_020:E1:1549:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my verey good Lorde my Lorde Protector . ORIGIN2,158.020.285

<Q_OR2_A_1551_FN_MARY1> <L_ORIGIN2_021> <A_MARY_TUDOR_I>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1516> <R_EDWARD_TUDOR_VI>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1537>

<P_176>

{ED:LETTER_CLXXVI._THE_PRINCESS_MARY_TO_KING_EDWARD_THE_SIXTH.}


AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My dutye moste humbly remembred unto your Majestie . It maye please the
same to be advertysed that I have by my servantes receaved your moste
honorable Letter , the contentes wherof doe not a litle trouble me ,
and so much the more for that any of my servants should move or
attempte me in matteres towching my sowle , which I thinke the meaneste
subjecte within your Realme could evell beare at their servantes hande
; havinge for my parte utterly refused heretofor to talke with them in
such matteres , and of all other persones leaste regarded them therein
; to whom I have declared what I thinke as she which trusted that your
<P_177> Majestie would have suffered me your poore humble sister and
beadeswoman to have used the accustomed Masse , which the Kinge your
father and myne with all his predecessores evermore used ; wherin also
I have been brought upp from my youth , ORIGIN2,177.021.286

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therunto my conscyence doth not only bynde me , which by noe meanes
will suffer me to thinke one thing and do another , ORIGIN2,177.021.287

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but also the promise made to the Emperore by your Majesties Counsell
was an assurance to me that in so doinge I should not offend the Lawes
, although they seeme now to quallefye and deny the thing .
ORIGIN2,177.021.288

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at my laste waytinge upon your Majestie I was so bould to declare
my mynd and conscyence to the same , ORIGIN2,177.021.289

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desired your Highnes , rather then you should constraine me to
leave the Masse , to take my life , whereunto your Majestie made me a
very gentle answere . ORIGIN2,177.021.290

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And nowe I beseche your Highnes to give me leave to write what I thinke
towching your Majesties Letteres . ORIGIN2,177.021.291

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In deed they be signed with your owne hand , and neverthelesse in my
oppinione not your Majesties in effecte , because it is well knowne
<paren> as heretofore I have declared in the presence of your Highnes
</paren> that althoughe , Our Lorde be praysed , your Majestie hath
farre more knowledge and greater guiftes then otheres of your yeares ,
yett it is not possyble that your Highnes can at theis yeares be a
judge in matters of Religeon . ORIGIN2,177.021.292

<P_178>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therefore I take it that the matter in your Letter procedeth from
such as do wish those thinges to take place , which be moste agreeable
to themselves ; by whose doinges <paren> your Majestie not offended
</paren> I intend not to rule my Conscyence . ORIGIN2,178.021.293

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus , without molestynge your Highnes any further , I humblye
beseeche the same ever , for Gods sake , to beare with me as you have
done , and not to thinke that by my doinges or ensample any
inconvenyence might growe to your Majestie or your Realme ;
ORIGIN2,178.021.294

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I use it not after any such soarte ; ORIGIN2,178.021.295

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
puttyng no doubte but in tyme to come , whether I live or die , your
Majestie shall perceave myne intente is grownded upon a true love
towardes you , whose royall estate I beseech Almightie God longe to
contynewe , which is and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} my daylie prayer ,
accordinge to my dutye . ORIGIN2,178.021.296

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after pardon craved of your Majestie for thes rude and boulde
Letteres , yf neither at my humble suite , nor for regard of the
promisse made to the Emperor , your Highnes will suffer and beare with
me , as you have done , tyll your Majestie may be a Judge herein
yourselfe , and right understand their proceedinges , <paren> of which
your goodness yet I dispaire not , </paren> otherwise , rather then to
offend God and my conscyence I offer my bodye at your will ,
ORIGIN2,178.021.297

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and death shall be more welcome than lyfe with a trowbeled conssyence .
ORIGIN2,178.021.298

<P_179>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Moste humbly beseching your Majestie to pardon my slowenes in
answeringe your Letteres , ORIGIN2,179.021.299

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my owlde deseasse would not suffer me to write any soner .
ORIGIN2,179.021.300

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus I praye Almightie God to keepe your Majestie in alle vertue
and honor , with good health and longe lyfe to his pleasure .
ORIGIN2,179.021.301

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From my poore howse at Copped Hall the xix of Auguste .
ORIGIN2,179.021.302

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:SISTER:1516:35
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_TUDOR_VI:MALE:BROTHER:1537:14
LETTER:ORIGIN2_021:E1:1551:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your Majestie 's moste humble sistere Mary . ORIGIN2,179.021.303

<Q_OR2_A_1553_T_JGREY> <L_ORIGIN2_022> <A_JANE_GREY> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1537> <R_WILLIAM_PARR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1513>

<P_183>

{ED:LETTER_THE_LADY_JANE_GRAY,_AS_QUEEN,_TO_THE_MARQUIS_OF_NOR
THAMPTON,_LIEUTENANT_OF_THE_COUNTY_OF_SURREY.}

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jane the quene . ORIGIN2,183.022.304

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right trustie and right welbeloved Cousen , we grete you well ,
advertising the same that where yt <P_184> hath pleased Almighty God to
call to his mercie out of this lief our derest Cousen the King your
late Sovereigne Lorde , by reason wherof ande suche Ordenances as the
said late King did establishe in his lief tyme for the securitie and
welthe of this Realme , we are entrerid into our rightfull possession
of this Kingdome , as by the last Will of our said derest Cousen , our
late progenitor , and other severall instruments to that effect signed
with his own hande and sealed with the grete Seale of this Realme in
his own presence , wherunto the Nobles of this realme for the most
parte and all our Counsaill and Judges , with the Mayor and Aldermen of
our Cytie of London , and dyvers other grave personages of this our
Realme of England , have also subscribed there names , as by the same
Will and Instrument it maye more evidently and plainly apere ; We
therfore doo You to understand , that by th'ordenance and sufferaunce
of the hevenly Lord and King , and by th'assent and consent of our said
Nobles and Counsellors , and others before specifyed , We doo this daye
make our enterye into our Towre of London as rightfull Quene of this
realme ; ORIGIN2,184.022.305

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have accordingly sett furthe our proclamacions to all our loving
subjects gyvenge them therby to understande their duties and
allegeaunce which they now of right owe unto us as more amplie by the
same you shall briefly perceyve and understand ; nothing doubting ,
right trustie and right welbeloued cosen , but that you will <P_185>
indever yourself in all things to the uttermost of your powre , not
only to defend our just title , but also assist us in our rightfull
possession of this kingdome , and to disturbe , repell , and resist the
fayned and untrue clayme of the Lady Mary basterd daughter to our grete
uncle Henry the Eight of famous memory ; wherein as you shall doo that
which to youre honor , truthe , and dutie aperteyneth , so shall we
remembre the same unto you and yours accordingly . ORIGIN2,185.022.306

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And our further pleasure is that you shall contynue , doo , and execute
every thinge and things as our Lieutenant within all places , according
to the tenor of the Commission addressed unto you from our late Cousen
King Edward the vj=th= in such and like sorte as if the same hadd byn ,
as we mynde shortely it shal be , renued , and by us confirmed under
our grete Seale unto you . ORIGIN2,185.022.307

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yeven under our Signet at our Tower of London the xj=th= of July , the
furst yere of our Reign . ORIGIN2,185.022.308

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_022:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To our right trusty and right welbeloved Cousyn and Counsaillor the
Marquiss of Northampton our Lieutenant generall of our County of Surrey
and to our trusty and welbeloved the Deputes of that Lieutenancy ; and
the Sheriff , the chief Justices of Peace and the worshipfull of that
Shire . ORIGIN2,185.022.309

<Q_OR2_A_1553_T_JGREY> <L_ORIGIN2_023> <A_JANE_GREY> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1537> <R_WILLIAM_PARR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1513>

<P_186>

{ED:LETTER_SECOND_LETTER_FROM_THE_LADY_JANE_AS_QUEEN_TO_THE_L
IEUTENANCY_OF_SURREY.}

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jane the Quene . ORIGIN2,186.023.310

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By the Quene . ORIGIN2,186.023.311

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trustie and wilbiloved we grete you well . ORIGIN2,186.023.312

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Albeit that our estate in this imperiall Crowne wherof we be actually
and really possessed , as partely may appere by our Proclamacion wherin
our tytle is published , is not ne can be in any wise doubtfull to all
suche our good faithfull subjects as , setting blynd affection apart ,
do with reason and wysdom consider the very foundacion and grounde of
our tytle , with the grete commodities therby coming thorough Gods
providence to the preservacion of our Comon Weale and polycie ; yet for
that we undrestande the Ladye Marye dothe not cease by Lettres in hir
name , provoked therto by hir adherents , enemyes of this realme , to
publishe and notiefie sklanderously to dyverse of our subjects matter
derogatorye to our title an dignitie royall , withe the slandre of
certen of our Nobilitie and Counsell , We have thought mete to
admonishe and exhorte You , as our true and faithfull subjects , to
remayne fast in your obeysaunce and duetie to the imperiall Crowne of
this Realme , whereof we have justely the possession ; and not to be
removed any wise from your duetie by <P_187> sklanderous reports or
lettres , dispersed abrode either by the said Lady Marye , or by hir
adherence ; ORIGIN2,187.023.313

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for truelye like as the Nobilitie of our Realme , our Counsell , oure
Prelats , oure Judges , and lerned men , and others good wise men ,
godly and naturall subjects , do remayne fast and surelye in their
Allegiance towards us , redy to adventure their lives , landes , and
goodes for our defence , so can a greate numbre of the same Nobilitie ,
Counsailors , and Judges truely testifye to all the worlde , with
savetye of their conscience , howe carefully and ernestly the late King
of famous memorye our dere Cousen King Edward the Sixt from tyme to
tyme mentioned and provoked them partelye by perswasion , partely
commandements , to have suche respecte to his succession if God shuld
call him to his mercye without issue , as might be the preservacion of
the Crowne in the hole undefyled English bloud ; and therfore of his
owne mere motion , both by graunt of his Lettres patents , and by
declaration of his Will , established the succession as it is declared
by our Proclamacion . ORIGIN2,187.023.314

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for the testimonye herof to the satisfaction of suche as shall
conceyve any doubt herin , We understand that certen of our Nobilitie
have written at this present , in some parte to admonishe You of your
duties , and to testifie their knowledge of the truethe of our tytle
and right . Wherfore we leave to procede further therin , being assured
in the goodnes of God that your harts $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
confirmed to owe your duetye to us your soveraigne Lady , who <P_188>
meane to preserve this Crowne of England in the royall blound , and out
of the {ED:THIS_SPACE_IS_LEFT_IN_THE_ORIGINAL.} of straungers and
papists , with the defence of all you our good subjects , your lieves ,
lands , and goods , in our peace agaynst the invasions and violence of
all forein or inward enemies and rebells . ORIGIN2,188.023.315

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yeven under our Signet at our Tower of London the xvj=th= day of July ,
in the first yere of our reigne . ORIGIN2,188.023.316

AUTHOR:JANE_GREY:FEMALE:_:1537:16
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PARR:MALE:_:1513:40
LETTER:ORIGIN2_023:E1:1553:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To our Trustie and welbeloved the Shirieff , Justices of Peace , and
other Gentilmen of our Countie of Surrey , and to every of them .
ORIGIN2,188.023.317

<Q_OR2_A_1564_T_HBERKELEY> <L_ORIGIN2_024> <A_HENRY_BERKELEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1534> <R_HENRY_RADCLIFFE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506?>

<P_196>

{ED:LETTER_CLXXXII._HENRY_LORD_BERKELEY_TO_THE_EARL_OF_SUSSEX.}


AUTHOR:HENRY_BERKELEY:MALE:_:1534:30
RECIPIENT:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1506?:58?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_024:E1:1564:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honorable and my very good Lorde , whereas I am informed by suche
as of late are come owte of <P_197> Irelande that my Ladye Woormonde my
sister is not so well used by my Lorde her husbande as I would wishe
her to be : and nature movinge me to learne further of the truthe
herein , I am so bolde at this presente <paren> hearinge of your
Lordshipps late arrivall owt of those partes </paren> to desire your
Lordship that yt maye please you by your Lettres to signifye unto me
whether you understande there be anye suche mislikinge betwene them or
not , and the causes thereof , to the ende I maye travell therein
accordinglie . Trustinge also that yf she be not well dealte withall
and used as she ought to be , that then your Lordshippe will make
reaporte of the same to suche of the Councell as maye healpe to
redresse the matter , and my suite to be made for her the better
furthered . ORIGIN2,197.024.318

AUTHOR:HENRY_BERKELEY:MALE:_:1534:30
RECIPIENT:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1506?:58?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_024:E1:1564:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in so doinge I must neades acknowledge myselfe bothe very moche
beholden unto your good Lordshippe , and She also , for her parte ,
moste bounden contynuallye to pray to the Almightie for the
preservation of your Lordship with the encreace of muche honoure .
ORIGIN2,197.024.319

AUTHOR:HENRY_BERKELEY:MALE:_:1534:30
RECIPIENT:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1506?:58?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_024:E1:1564:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From my Castell of Berkeley , the xxvj=th=. of Maye , 1564 .
ORIGIN2,197.024.320

AUTHOR:HENRY_BERKELEY:MALE:_:1534:30
RECIPIENT:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1506?:58?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_024:E1:1564:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Lordshipps assured Henry Berkeley . ORIGIN2,197.024.321

AUTHOR:HENRY_BERKELEY:MALE:_:1534:30
RECIPIENT:HENRY_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1506?:58?
LETTER:ORIGIN2_024:E1:1564:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Right honorable and my very good Lorde the Earle of Sussex ,
yeve these . ORIGIN2,197.024.322

<Q_OR2_A_1565_T_TRANDOLPH> <L_ORIGIN2_025> <A_THOMAS_RANDOLPH>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1523> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_198>

{ED:LETTER_CLXXXIII._THOMAS_RANDOLPH_TO_SIR_WILLIAM_CECILL.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your H. desyerethe from tyme to tyme to here of our doyngs here ,
ORIGIN2,198.025.323

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , as the worlde framethe amongeste us , presentlye I perceave that
I shall lacke no matter to wryte of . ORIGIN2,198.025.324

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yester daye , beinge Sondaye , the Banes of Matrimonie were askede in
S=t=. Giles Churche betwene thys Quene and the Lord Darlye in that
sorte as {in} I sente your H. a byllet in wrytinge , saving that She
was fyrste named . ORIGIN2,198.025.325

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After dyner , with all the solemnities requisite , he was created Duke
of <P_199> Albanie , so that upon Sondaye nexte withowte all dowte the
mariage goethe forwarde , ORIGIN2,199.025.326

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yet uncertayne whether yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} in the Churche
whear the Banes were asked , in the Abbie Churche , or in her owne
Chappell . ORIGIN2,199.025.327

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her force remaynethe contynnuallye with herr , ORIGIN2,199.025.328

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and proclamation made thys daye that no man upon payne of deathe shall
departe owte of the towne for x. dayes . ORIGIN2,199.025.329

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The daye of Lawe agaynste the iiij Bourgois men of thys towne is lyke
to holde , for anye thynge that she cane be perswaded to the contrarie
. ORIGIN2,199.025.330

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yf so be that theie do compere , the protestants have bounde them
selves to assyste them with all the force that theie are hable to mayke
. ORIGIN2,199.025.331

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The daye is upon Thurseday nexte . ORIGIN2,199.025.332

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thys Counsell is nowe augmented by one copple mo then were before of
worthye Counsellors , that upon Saterdaye with no smale force came to
thys towne , the Earle Athall and L. Ruthen . ORIGIN2,199.025.333

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So are ther nowe present the L. Chauncelor , L. Athall , L. Ersken , L.
Ruthen , and the Secretarie ; ORIGIN2,199.025.334

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
some other are admitted to stonde by , of the noble men that are here
present . ORIGIN2,199.025.335

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord of Murraye hathe playnelye refused to come amonge their hands
whome he hathe so good occasion to suspecte , ORIGIN2,199.025.336

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfore yt was yesterdaye in consultation whether yt were beste to
have hym proclamed rebell thys daye or not ; whear unto some among the
Lords dyscented . ORIGIN2,199.025.337

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I knowe not yet what <P_200> will become of yt , nor who their were
that dyscented . ORIGIN2,200.025.338

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I here saye that the Quene will thys daye despache a man , I know not
yet whome , towards the Quene 's Ma=tie= , I thynke some Frenche man ,
bycause of the Emb. from whome she hathe all her intelligens .
ORIGIN2,200.025.339

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ther is one Lassells that dwellethe bysyds Toplyf , a cunnynge dealer
betwene thys Countrye and that . ORIGIN2,200.025.340

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maye yt please her Ma=tie= that I may knowe her pleasure for suche
Englisshemen as are here , or others that come . ORIGIN2,200.025.341

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Moste humblye I tayke my leave . ORIGIN2,200.025.342

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Edenbourge the xxiiij=th=. of Julye , 1565 . ORIGIN2,200.025.343

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= H. allwayes at commaund Tho. Randolphe . ORIGIN2,200.025.344

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:42
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:45
LETTER:ORIGIN2_025:E1:1565:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable S=r=. William Scicill knight principall
Secretorie to the Q. Ma=tie= . ORIGIN2,200.025.345

<Q_OR2_A_1566_T_TRANDOLPH> <L_ORIGIN2_026> <A_THOMAS_RANDOLPH>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1523> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_205>

{ED:LETTER_CLXXXV._THOMAS_RANDOLPH_TO_SIR_WILLIAM_CECIL.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maye yt please yo=r= H. I have receaved the Quene 's M=ts=. lettre of
the seconde of this instant , ORIGIN2,205.026.346

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therby understonde her Mat=s=. mynde touchynge the Commissioners
appoynted by this Quene according to her Mat=s=. will .
ORIGIN2,205.026.347

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have spoken agayne with this Quene that some other noble man of lyke
qualitie myghte be appoynted in my Lord Bothewell place , whearunto her
Grace hathe not yet accorded , but hathe promised to conferr with her
Counsell ther in , and to gyve me a resolute answer therof within iij.
or iiij. dayes , w=ch= tyme I do attende , ORIGIN2,205.026.348

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane season wolde not that yo=r= H. sholde thynke longe for
my lettres ; ORIGIN2,205.026.349

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for with more expedition I cane not bringe these matters to that passe
that is to be desyered . ORIGIN2,205.026.350

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thoughte good also t'advertyse yo=r= H. that this daye Roberte Melvin
is despached from hens towards the Quene 's Ma=tie= from the Quene .
ORIGIN2,205.026.351

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His cheif Commission is to see what the Quene 's Ma=tie= will do for
this Quene towards the succession in favour of my Lord of Murraye and
his complices . ORIGIN2,205.026.352

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He muste also sue for my Ladie Lenox deliverie , and other wyse see
what freindshipe he cane mayke amonge such as are well wyllinge towards
her <P_206> and howsbonde , that none be preferred to them in their
pretended righte . ORIGIN2,206.026.353

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The best couller that he cane use is to be suter for the Lord ,
ORIGIN2,206.026.354

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane season maye deale with other as he cane fynde occasion
. ORIGIN2,206.026.355

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is thought that anye thynge that this Quene cane desyer $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} the easlyer accordyd for the greate number of her favorers
in the Quenes Ma=ts= reaulme . ORIGIN2,206.026.356

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall not neade nor wyll not be so bolde as t'advise you to stonde
harde to yo=r= centere , ORIGIN2,206.026.357

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I assure you I see this parte of the circumference shrewedlye
inclined , and to beare a greate swaye to yo=r= hurte , yf yt be not
looked unto . ORIGIN2,206.026.358

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt hathe byne openlye saide by this Quene that she wyll have the Masse
free for all men that wyll here yt . ORIGIN2,206.026.359

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Her howsbonde , his father , Lord Athall , and other , nowe daylye
resorte to yt . ORIGIN2,206.026.360

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Protestants in suche feare and dowte of them selves that theie
knowe not what shall become of them . ORIGIN2,206.026.361

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The wyseste so myche meslyke this state and goverment , that theie
desyer nothynge more then the retorne of the Lords , ether to be
receaved in their owne rowmes or ons agayne to put all in hazarde .
ORIGIN2,206.026.362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yesterdaye the Lord Darlye receaved the Order . ORIGIN2,206.026.363

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Emb. bothe dyned and supped with hym . ORIGIN2,206.026.364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This daye he dynethe with the Quene ; tomorrowe with the Counsell ;
upon Wensedaye in the Castle ; ORIGIN2,206.026.365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Thursedaye departethe . ORIGIN2,206.026.366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Solemnitie was greate , the moste parte of the nobilitie present .
ORIGIN2,206.026.367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ther went with hym to the masse , his father , Earles Athall and
<P_207> Cassels , and Lord Seton . ORIGIN2,207.026.368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus myche I thought good to wryte unto Your H. attendinge suche answer
as I shall gette touchynge the Commissioners . ORIGIN2,207.026.369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Moste humblye I tayke my leave . ORIGIN2,207.026.370

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Edenb. the x=th=. of Februarie 1565 . ORIGIN2,207.026.371

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= h. bounden at commande Tho. Randolphe . ORIGIN2,207.026.372

AUTHOR:THOMAS_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:1523:43
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:46
LETTER:ORIGIN2_026:E1:1566:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the righte honorable S=r=. William Cecill Knighte Principall
Secretarie to the Quenes Ma=tie= . ORIGIN2,207.026.373

<Q_OR2_C_1566_T_ELIZABETH1> <L_ORIGIN2_027> <A_ELIZABETH_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1533> <R_ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1528>

<P_229>

{ED:LETTER_CLXXXIX._QUEEN_ELIZABETH_TO_THE_LADY_HOBY.}


AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
Madam Although we heare that since the death of your husband , our late
Ambassador , S=r= Thomas Hoby , you have received , in France , great
and comfortable courtesyes from the French King , the Queen Mother ,
the Queen of Navarre and sundry others , yet we made accompt that all
these layd together $can $not {TEXT:cannot} so satisfye you as some
testimony and sparke of our favour , with the application of the late
service of your Husband , and of your own demeanour there : wherefore
though you shall receive it somewhat lately in time , yet we assure you
the same proceedeth only of the late knowledge of your return .
ORIGIN2,229.027.374

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
And therefore we let you know that the service of your Husband was to
us so acceptable , as next yourself and your children we have not
<P_230> the meanest loss of so able a Servant in that calling .
ORIGIN2,230.027.375

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
And yet since it hath so pleased God to call him in the entry of this
our Service , we take it in the better part , seeing it hath appeared
to be Gods pleasure to call him away , so favourably to the service of
him , especially in the constancy of his duty towards God , wherein ,
we hear say , he dyed very commendably . ORIGIN2,230.027.376

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
And for your self , we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but let you know that we
hear out of France such singular good reports of your duty well
accomplished towards your husband , both living and dead , with other
your sober , wise , and discreet behaviour in that Court and Country ,
that we think it a part of great contentation to us , and commendation
of our Country , that such a Gentlewoman hath given so manifest a
testimony of virtue in such hard times of adversity .
ORIGIN2,230.027.377

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
And therefore though we thought very well of you before , yet shall we
hereafter make a more assured account of your virtues and gifts ,
ORIGIN2,230.027.378

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
and wherein soever we may conveniantly do you pleasure , you may be
thereof assured . ORIGIN2,230.027.379

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
And so we would have you to rest yourself in quietness , with a firm
opinion of our especiall favour towards you . ORIGIN2,230.027.380

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
Given under our Signet at our City of Oxford the .. of September 1566 :
the eight year of our Reign . ORIGIN2,230.027.381

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1533:33
RECIPIENT:ELIZABETH_HOBY[N.COOKE]:FEMALE:_:1528:38
LETTER:ORIGIN2_027:E1:1566:COPY:OTHER
Your loving Friend Elizabeth , R. ORIGIN2,230.027.382

<Q_OR2_D_1569_T_BRANDOLPH> <L_ORIGIN2_028> <A_BERNARD_RANDOLPH>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_254>

{ED:LETTER_BERNARD_RANDOLPH_COMMON_SERJEANT_OF_LONDON,_TO_SIR_W
ILLIAM_CECIL.}

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Righte honorable , after my humble duetie to your Honor remembred ,
pleasethe the same to be advertised <P_255> that I <paren> allthough
most unworthie </paren> being by dyvysion lymytted under your honor and
M=r=. Deane to the Citie of Westminster and lyberties of the same ,
aswell for thexamynacion of rogues and sturdye vagabondes and
masterlesse men , as also for to punyshe other enormyties and
mysdemeanors theare ; to the whiche precincte above other in the Shire
, in th'absence of your honor <paren> and the said M=r=. Deane </paren>
I thinck myself more bounden to have a vigillant eye then if the same
M=r=. Deane weare at home , or your honor somewhat nearer .
ORIGIN2,255.028.383

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And repayring thither this daye <paren> as comonlie I doo but ones
everye fortenight yf I have no especial cause </paren> , but this is
the thirde tyme of my goinge thither , to examyn a lewde persone whoe
hathe stolen diverse parcells of brass and copper that did adorne the
Tombe of the late Kinge of famouse memorie Henrie the Seventhe and
Queene Elizabeth his wife . ORIGIN2,255.028.384

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And at my nowe comynge thither M=r=. Staunton and others of
th'inhabitants of the said Cytie , gave me to understande thatt there
was a great disorder in or near Long Acre , by reason of certain Games
that were proclaymed there to be exercised , wheare indede theare was
none used but one onlie Game , called Riflinge , by which they saide
diverse persons weare spoyled and utterlie undon . Wheruppon I
comaunded M=r=. Colbrande the highe Constable of the saide Cytie and
Lyberties <paren> taking with hym suche nomber of petit constables and
others <P_256> as to his discression sholde seme mete , and sendinge
before worde to the constable of S=t=. Gyles in the fieldes to mete hym
theare </paren> to goe thither , and not onlie to apprehende all
persones that sholde be founde theare usinge the same game , but also
them that kepte the same games . ORIGIN2,256.028.385

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And I my self went also thither for the quieter apprehendinge of them ,
ORIGIN2,256.028.386

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
for I was informed by the said M=r=. Staunton that theare was a very
greate nomber , ORIGIN2,256.028.387

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and the nomber I thinck was muche the greater by reasone of the
concourse of people thither to se one lyinge theare that was slayne
theare this mornyng . Wheruppon the Keper of the same Games was
broughte before me , but none of them that played theare :
ORIGIN2,256.028.388

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and yet one of my owne Servants , whom I sent pryvylie thither for that
purpose , did see that game of Ryflinge in use theare at that tyme .
ORIGIN2,256.028.389

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
But I thincke pryvie warnynge was gyven when I was perceyved to bende
my selfe that waye . ORIGIN2,256.028.390

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Maye it please your Honor , I commytted the Keper of the same Game to
warde , meanynge nevertheles uppon sute to bayle hym untill the general
Sessions . ORIGIN2,256.028.391

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And forasmuche as he is one of the Quene 's Majestie 's Servants , and
hathe a Lycence for laufull Games signed by th'andes of the right
honorables the Lorde Stewarde , the Lorde of Arrundell , and the Lorde
of Leicester <paren> the copye wherof I have taken and intende to kepe
the same </paren> , and he was in tymes past servant to the saide Lorde
of Arrundell . And for that before <P_257> this tyme I have had some
stoute and sharpe wordes when I have don even favorable justice to
honorable mens servants , and doubting what synister complainte may be
now againste me to any of honorable personages abovenamed , I have
thought good to make your Honor pryvie of this my doinge , humblie
praying your good Honor 's ayde if I shall have nede of the same .
ORIGIN2,257.028.392

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And beinge verie sorie to trouble your Honor with this my longe rude
Lettre , I comytt the same to the tuyssion of the Allmightie whoe ever
preserve you in helthe and welthe longe to contynue , with increase of
much honor . ORIGIN2,257.028.393

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Written the fourth of this September 1569 . ORIGIN2,257.028.394

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Your Honor 's to commande to my little power Bernard Randolph , Commen
Serjiant of London . ORIGIN2,257.028.395

AUTHOR:BERNARD_RANDOLPH:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:49
LETTER:ORIGIN2_028:E1:1569:UNKNOWN:OTHER
To the right honorable Sir William Cecyll Knight , principall
Secretarie to the Quene 's Majestie be theis gyven withe good spede .
ORIGIN2,257.028.396

<Q_OR2_A_1572_T_FRUSSELL> <L_ORIGIN2_029> <A_FRANCIS_RUSSELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1527?> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_266>

{ED:LETTER_CCIII._THE_EARL_OF_BEDFORD_TO_LORD_TREASURER_BURGHLEY.}


AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After my hartie comendacions to yo=r= good Lordshippe , here enclosed I
sende you a Lettre of M=r= Asshetones <P_267> which shuld have bene
delyvered some dayes sythens . ORIGIN2,267.029.397

{COM:A_PASSAGE_OMITTED}

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am now going to prepare for her Ma=ties= coming to Woborne , which
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} done in the best and most hartiest maner that
{in} I can . ORIGIN2,267.029.398

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I trust yo=r= L. will have in remembraunce to provide and helpe that
her Ma=ts=. tarieng be not above two nights and a daye ;
ORIGIN2,267.029.399

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , for so long tyme do I prepare . ORIGIN2,267.029.400

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray god the Rowmes and Lodgings there may be to her Ma=ts=.
contentacion for the tyme . ORIGIN2,267.029.401

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If I could make them better upon suche a sodeyn , then wold I , be
assured . ORIGIN2,267.029.402

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They should be better then they be . ORIGIN2,267.029.403

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So w=t= my hartie thanks to yo=r= good L. remayning alwayes as I have
just cause yo=rs= , do so committ you to Gods keping .
ORIGIN2,267.029.404

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Russell House this xvj=th=. of July 1572 . ORIGIN2,267.029.405

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= L. right assured F. Bedford . ORIGIN2,267.029.406

AUTHOR:FRANCIS_RUSSELL:MALE:_:1527?:45?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:52
LETTER:ORIGIN2_029:E2:1572:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my verie good Lord the Lord Burghley , Highe Treasurer of England .
ORIGIN2,267.029.407

<Q_OR2_A_1582_T_W1FLEETWOOD> <L_ORIGIN2_030> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1535> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_283>

{ED:LETTER_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_RECORDER_OF_LONDON,_TO_LORD_BURGHLE
Y.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My singuler good Lord , uppon Thursday at even , her Majestie in her
Cooche , near Islyngton , taking of <P_284> the aier , her Highnes was
environed with a nosmber of Rooges . ORIGIN2,284.030.408

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
One M=r= Stone a footeman cam in all hast to my Lord Maior , and after
to me , ORIGIN2,284.030.409

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told us of the same . ORIGIN2,284.030.410

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd the same night send warants owt into the seyd quarters and in to
Westminster and the Duchie : ORIGIN2,284.030.411

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the mornyng I went a brood my selff , ORIGIN2,284.030.412

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I tooke that daye lxxiiij roogs , whereof some were blynd and yet
great usurers , and very riche : ORIGIN2,284.030.413

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the same daye towards night I sent for M=r=. Harrys and M=r=.
Smithe and the governors of Bridwell , ORIGIN2,284.030.414

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tooke all the names of the roogs ; ORIGIN2,284.030.415

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent theym frome the Sessions Hall unto Bridwell where they
remayned that night . ORIGIN2,284.030.416

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Twelff daye in the forenoone , the Master of the Rolls , my selff
, and others receyved a charge before my Lords of the Counsell as
towching roogs and masterles men , and to have a pryvie searche .
ORIGIN2,284.030.417

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The same daye at after dyner <paren> for I dyned at the Rolls </paren>
I mett the governors of Bridwell , ORIGIN2,284.030.418

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so that after nowne we examined all the seyd roogs
ORIGIN2,284.030.419

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave theym substanciall payment . ORIGIN2,284.030.420

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the strongest we bestowed in the mylne and the lighters .
ORIGIN2,284.030.421

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The rest wee desmyssed with a promise of a dooble paye if we mett with
theym agayne . ORIGIN2,284.030.422

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Sounday being crastino of the Twelfth daye , I dyned with M=r=
Deane of Westminster , where I conferred with hym towching Westminster
and the Duchie , ORIGIN2,284.030.423

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then I tooke order for Southwarke , Lambeth , and Newyngton , from
whence I receyved a shooll of xl. rooggs , men and women , and <P_285>
above . ORIGIN2,285.030.424

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I bestowed theym in Bridwell . ORIGIN2,285.030.425

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd the same after nowne peruse Pooles , where I tooke abowt xx=ti=
cloked roogs that there use to kepe standing . ORIGIN2,285.030.426

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I placed theym also in Bridwell . ORIGIN2,285.030.427

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next mornyng , being Mounday , the M=r=: of the Roolls and the rest
tooke order with the Constables for a privie searche ageynst Thursdaye
at night , and to have the offendors browght to the Sessions Hall upon
Frydaye in the mornyng where wee the Justices shold mete .
ORIGIN2,285.030.428

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And agaynst the same tyme my Lo. Maior and I dyd the lyke in London and
Sowthworke . ORIGIN2,285.030.429

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The same afternowne the Masters of Bridwell and I mett ,
ORIGIN2,285.030.430

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , after every man being examined , eche one receyved his payment
according to his deserts ; at whiche tyme the strongest were put to
worke and the other dismissed into theire Countries .
ORIGIN2,285.030.431

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The same daye the M=r=. of the Savoye was with us ORIGIN2,285.030.432

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayd he was sworne to lodge " claudicantes , egrotantes , et
peregrinantes ; " ORIGIN2,285.030.433

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the next mornyng I sent the Constables of the Duchie to the
Hospitall ORIGIN2,285.030.434

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they browght unto me at Bridewell vj. tall fellowes that were
draymen unto bruers and were neither " claudicantes , egrotantes , nor
peregrinantes . " ORIGIN2,285.030.435

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Constables if they might have had theyre owen wills wold have
browght as many moo . ORIGIN2,285.030.436

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Master dyd wryte a very curtese letter unto us to produce theym :
ORIGIN2,285.030.437

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and although he wrott charitably unto us , yet were they all sowndly
payed , and sent home to thare <P_286> masters . ORIGIN2,286.030.438

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All Tewsday , Weddensdaye , and Thursdaye there cam in nosmbers of
roogs ; ORIGIN2,286.030.439

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they were rewarded all according to theire deserts .
ORIGIN2,286.030.440

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Frydaye mornyng , at the Justice Hall , there were browght in
above a C. lewed people taken in the privie searche .
ORIGIN2,286.030.441

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The M=rs=. of Bridwell receyved theym , ORIGIN2,286.030.442

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and immediatly gave theym punishment . ORIGIN2,286.030.443

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This Satterday , after Causes of Consciens herd by my Lord Maior and me
, I dined ORIGIN2,286.030.444

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and went to Polls and in other places as well within the libertes as
els where , ORIGIN2,286.030.445

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I founde not one rooge stirryng . ORIGIN2,286.030.446

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Emongest all these thyngs I dyd note , that we had not of London ,
Westm. nor Sowthwarke , nor yet Midd. nor Surr. above twelve , and
those we have taken order for . The resedew for the most were of Wales
, Salop , Cestr. Somerset , Barks , Oxforde , and Essex ; and that fewe
or none of thaym had ben abowt London above iij. or iiij. mownthes .
ORIGIN2,286.030.447

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd note also that we mett not agayne w=th= any in all our searches
that had receyved punishment . ORIGIN2,286.030.448

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The chieff nurserie of all these evell people is the Savoye , and the
brick kilnes nere Islyngton . ORIGIN2,286.030.449

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for the brick kylnes , we will take suche order that they shall be
reformed . ORIGIN2,286.030.450

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I trust by yo=r= good Lordship 's help the Savoye shall be amended
; ORIGIN2,286.030.451

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for suerlie , as by experiens I fynd it , the same place , as it is
used , is not converted to a good use or purpose . ORIGIN2,286.030.452

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this shall suffice for Roogs . ORIGIN2,286.030.453

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Weddensdaye last a Frenche merchaunt , in a bagge sealed ,
delivered to a cariers wiff of Norwich <P_287> xl=li= to be caried to
Norwich . ORIGIN2,287.030.454

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She secretlie conveyed the money to a howse a good way off frome the
Inne , ORIGIN2,287.030.455

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and within half a quarter of an houre the Frenche merchaunt cam agayne
to se his money packed up . ORIGIN2,287.030.456

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the woman denyed that ever she received any one penny with such
horrible protestacions as I never herd of before . ORIGIN2,287.030.457

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=. Secretarie Walsingham wrote me his Letters for the ayde of the
Frenche man , ORIGIN2,287.030.458

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after great searche made , the money was founde and restored .
ORIGIN2,287.030.459

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She not knowing of the same , I examined her in my studie privatlie ,
ORIGIN2,287.030.460

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but by no meanes she wold not confesse the same , ORIGIN2,287.030.461

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but dyd bequeth her selff to the Devell , both bodie and sowle , if she
had the money or ever sawe it . ORIGIN2,287.030.462

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this was her craft that she then had not the money , and in dead
she sayth the trowth , ORIGIN2,287.030.463

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it was eyther at her frynds where she left it , or els delyvered .
ORIGIN2,287.030.464

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And then I perceyving her fewke , I asked her whether the Frenche
merchant dyd not bring her a bagge sealed full of metall that was
weightie , were it either platts , coyne , cownters , or suche lyke :
ORIGIN2,287.030.465

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
then , quoth she , I will aunswer no further . ORIGIN2,287.030.466

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And then I used my Lo. Maiors advise , ORIGIN2,287.030.467

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bestowed her in Bridwell , where the Masters and I sawe her
punished ; ORIGIN2,287.030.468

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , being well whipped , she sayd that the Devell stood at her elbowe
in my studie , and willed her to denye it . But so soon as she was upon
the Crosse to be punished he gave her over . ORIGIN2,287.030.469

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus my singuler good Lo. I end this tragical part of this wicked
woman . ORIGIN2,287.030.470

<P_288>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This mornyng the Deputie of Holborne and two of the Wardmot Enquest
browght me this examination . ORIGIN2,288.030.471

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send for the partie . ORIGIN2,288.030.472

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was browght before my Lord Maior and me . ORIGIN2,288.030.473

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And we have commanded hym to warde expecting yo=r= good Lo. advise as
towchinge his offens . ORIGIN2,288.030.474

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus most humbly I send unto yo=r= good Lo. this last weeks Diarye ,
ceasing at this tyme to troble yo=r= honer any further .
ORIGIN2,288.030.475

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Bacon howse this 14 of Ja. 1581 . ORIGIN2,288.030.476

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your good Lo. most bounden W. Fletewoode . ORIGIN2,288.030.477

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:62
LETTER:ORIGIN2_030:E2:1582:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right honorable and my singuler good L. My Lo. High Treaso=r= of
England . ORIGIN2,288.030.478

<Q_OR2_A_1583_T_W1FLEETWOOD> <L_ORIGIN2_031> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1535> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_290>

{ED:LETTER_CCXIV._M=R=_RECORDER_FLEETWOOD_TO_LORD_BURGHLEY.}


AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honorable Sithens your Lo. last being here in London there have
ben twoo great Feasts , the one at the Grosers-hall , the other at the
Haberdashers-hall . ORIGIN2,290.031.479

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At the Haberdashers feast was my Lord Maior , and divers of his
brethern , with myselff , where my Lo. Maior after the second course
come inne dyd take the great standing Cupp of the gift of Sir William
Garrett , being full of Ypocraze , <paren> and silence being commaunded
throwgh all the Tables </paren> all men being bare-headed , my Lo ,
before all men dyd use these words with a convenyent lowd voyce
ORIGIN2,290.031.480

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" M=r=. Recorder of London and yow my good bretherne the Aldermen ,
beare witnes that I do drynke unto M=r=. Alderman Massam as Shereff of
London and Midd. frome Mighelmas next comming , for one holl yere ;
ORIGIN2,290.031.481

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I do beseche God to graunt hym as quiett and peaceable a yere with
as good and gratious favor of her Maiestie as I my selff and my
brethern the Shereffs now being have hytherto had , and as I trust
shall have . " ORIGIN2,290.031.482

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This spoken , all men desired the same . ORIGIN2,290.031.483

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Sword-bearer in hast went to the Grosers <P_291> ffeast , where
M=r=. Ald=n=. Massam was at dyner ; ORIGIN2,291.031.484

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there dyd openlie declare the words that my Lo. Maior had used :
whereunto <paren> silens made and all being hushe </paren> the Alderman
aunswered verie modestlie in this sort , ORIGIN2,291.031.485

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" First I thanke God who through his great goodness haith called me
frome a verie poore and meane degree unto this worshipfull estate .
ORIGIN2,291.031.486

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Secondlie I thanke her Majestie for her gratious goodnes in allowing
unto us these great and ample fraunchises . ORIGIN2,291.031.487

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thirdlie I thank my Lo. Maior for having so honorable an opinion of
this My Companie of Grocers as to make choise of me being a poore
member of the same . " ORIGIN2,291.031.488

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this said , bothe he and all the Companie pledged My Lord
ORIGIN2,291.031.489

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave hym thanks . ORIGIN2,291.031.490

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M. Nowell of the Court haith lately been here in London .
ORIGIN2,291.031.491

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He caused his man to geve a blowe unto a carrman . ORIGIN2,291.031.492

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His man haithe stricken the carrman with the pumell of his sword
ORIGIN2,291.031.493

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therwith haith broken his skelle and killed hym .
ORIGIN2,291.031.494

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=. Nowell and his man are lyke to be indicated ; whereof I am sure
to be muche trobled , what with lettres and his frynds , and what by
other meanes as in the verie like case heretofore I have byn even with
the same man . ORIGIN2,291.031.495

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here are sunderie yonge gentilmen that use the Court that most commonly
terme theymselffs <font> gyntylmen </font> . ORIGIN2,291.031.496

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When any of these have done any thinge amisse and are compleyned of ,
or arrested for debt , they then runne unto me , ORIGIN2,291.031.497

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and no other excuse or aunswere can they make but saye <P_292> " <font>
I am a Jyntylman , ORIGIN2,292.031.498

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and being a Jyntylman I am not thus to be used at a slave and a colions
handes . </font> " ORIGIN2,292.031.499

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not what other parlee M=r=. Nowell can pled ;
ORIGIN2,292.031.500

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but this I say , ORIGIN2,292.031.501

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the fact is fowle . ORIGIN2,292.031.502

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God send hym good deliverans . ORIGIN2,292.031.503

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thinke in my conscience that he makethe no reckenyng of the matter .
ORIGIN2,292.031.504

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit was my chaunse to examine a matter in the Court holden at Bridwell
. ORIGIN2,292.031.505

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have ben complayned of to the Counsel bord . ORIGIN2,292.031.506

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was sent for . ORIGIN2,292.031.507

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=. Secretary received my Aunswer , ORIGIN2,292.031.508

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told the compleynaunts that they had deserved to be hanged
ORIGIN2,292.031.509

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And this is the Case . ORIGIN2,292.031.510

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Abraham of Abraham a gentilman of an hundred pound land in com. Lanc.
put his dawghter and heire unto my lady Gerrerd of the Brenne .
ORIGIN2,292.031.511

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Thomas and my lady being here in London , one Dwelles , a fenser
nere Cicell howse , and his wiff , by indirect meanes , being of kyn to
the girle , dyd invite all my Lady 's children and gentilwomen unto a
breakfast . ORIGIN2,292.031.512

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They cam thether , ORIGIN2,292.031.513

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at theire commyng the yowthes and servingmen were caried up to the
ffens skolle . ORIGIN2,292.031.514

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Ladys dowghters and gentilwomen must nedes play at the cardes , will
they nill they . ORIGIN2,292.031.515

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The girle Abraham , by the wiff of the howse , was conveyghed in to a
chamber , ORIGIN2,292.031.516

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shut the dowre after her ORIGIN2,292.031.517

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there left her . ORIGIN2,292.031.518

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Girl found in the Chamber iiij. or v. tall men .
ORIGIN2,292.031.519

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She knew theym not . ORIGIN2,292.031.520

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ymediatlie the girle fell into a great ffeare seyng them to
compasse her about . ORIGIN2,292.031.521

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then began an old priest to read upon a <P_293> booke ,
ORIGIN2,293.031.522

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his words she understood not , saving these words ORIGIN2,293.031.523

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" I Henry take the Suzane to my wedded wiff " &c . ORIGIN2,293.031.524

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This done they charged the wenche never to discover this to any body
lyving : ORIGIN2,293.031.525

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so sent her downe to her fellowes . ORIGIN2,293.031.526

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And dyner being done the wenche told to her fellowes very lamentably
what had ben donne ; and they over to S=r=. Tho. and my La .
ORIGIN2,293.031.527

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And upon complaynt I sent for the ffensers wiff who wold confesse
nothyng . ORIGIN2,293.031.528

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I went with her my self to Bridwell , where there was a full Court ,
ORIGIN2,293.031.529

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thether cam Sir Thomas with the wenche , ORIGIN2,293.031.530

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there we bolted owt the wholl matter ORIGIN2,293.031.531

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dyd no more . ORIGIN2,293.031.532

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The ffensers wyff is retorned to the Cownter . ORIGIN2,293.031.533

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The wenche is with my La. Gerrerd . ORIGIN2,293.031.534

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She was never in Bridwell , as the ffenser and one Poollwhele dyd
avouche to some of my Lords . ORIGIN2,293.031.535

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The wenche was there to accuse the fensers wiff in open Court .
ORIGIN2,293.031.536

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lo. this being the fact , and the trew case thereof , I fynd the
same to be ffellonie by A=o=. 3. st. 7. ca. 2 . ORIGIN2,293.031.537

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therefore me thinketh suche companyons as this fenser and his wiff
are , owght not to be allowed to deface suche poore men as I am , in
suche order , before the Lords . ORIGIN2,293.031.538

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus most humbly I take my leave of yo=r= good Lo. this 18 of Julie
1583 . ORIGIN2,293.031.539

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= good Lo. most bounden W. Fletewoode . ORIGIN2,293.031.540

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:63
LETTER:ORIGIN2_031:E2:1583:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" To the right honorable and my singuler good Lord Treasourer of
England . " ORIGIN2,293.031.541

<Q_OR2_A_1585_T_W1FLEETWOOD> <L_ORIGIN2_032> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1535> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_295>

{ED:LETTER_M=R=._RECORDER_FLEETWOOD_TO_LORD_TREASURER_BURGHLEY.}
_@

<P_296>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right honorable and my verie good Lord , uppon Thursdaye laste , beinge
the crastinn of Trinitie Terme , we kepte a Sessions of Inquyrie in
London in the forenone , ORIGIN2,296.032.542

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the afternone we kepte the lyke att Fynsburie for Middlesex , in
which two severall Sessionses all such as were to be arrayegned for
felonye at the Gaole deliverye were indyted . ORIGIN2,296.032.543

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Uppon Frydaie last we sate at the Justice hall att Newgate from vij in
the morninge untill vij att night , where were condempned <P_297>
certen horstealers , cutpurses , and such lyke , to the nusmber of x. ,
whereof ix. were executed , and the tenthe stayed by a meanes from the
Courte . ORIGIN2,297.032.544

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
These were executed uppon Saterdaye in the morninge .
ORIGIN2,297.032.545

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was a Showmaker also condempned for wyllfull murder commytted in
the Blacke ffryers , who was executed uppon Mondaie in the morninge .
ORIGIN2,297.032.546

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The same daye my Lord Maior beinge absent abowte the goods of the
Spannyards , and also all my Lords the Justices of the Benches beinge
also awaye , we fewe that were there did spend the same daie abowte the
searchinge out of sundrye that were receptors of ffelons , where we
fownd a greate manye aswell in London , Westminster , Sowthwarke , as
in all other places abowte the same . ORIGIN2,297.032.547

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amongest our travells this one matter tumbled owt by the waye , that
one Wotton a gentilman borne , and sometyme a marchauntt man of good
credyte , who fallinge by tyme into decaye , kepte an Alehowse att
Smarts keye neere Byllingesgate , ORIGIN2,297.032.548

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after , for some mysdemeanor beinge put downe , he reared upp a
newe trade of lyffe , ORIGIN2,297.032.549

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the same Howse he procured all the Cuttpurses abowt this Cittie
to repaire to his said howse . ORIGIN2,297.032.550

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There , was a schole howse sett upp to learne younge boyes to cutt
purses . ORIGIN2,297.032.551

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There were hung up two devises , ORIGIN2,297.032.552

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the one was a pockett , ORIGIN2,297.032.553

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the other was a purse . ORIGIN2,297.032.554

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The pockett had in yt certen cownters ORIGIN2,297.032.555

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was hunge abowte with hawkes bells , ORIGIN2,297.032.556

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and over the toppe did hannge a litle sacring bell ;
ORIGIN2,297.032.557

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he that could take owt a cownter without any noyse , was allowed to
<P_298> be <font> a publique ffoyster </font> : ORIGIN2,298.032.558

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he that could take a peece of sylver owt of the purse without the
noyse of any of the bells , he was adjudged <font> a judiciall Nypper
</font> . ORIGIN2,298.032.559

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nota that a ffoister is a Pick-pockett , and a Nypper is termed a
Pickepurse , or a Cutpurse . ORIGIN2,298.032.560

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as concerninge this matter , I will sett downe noe more in this
place , but referr your Lordship to the paper herein enclosed .
ORIGIN2,298.032.561

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Saterdaye and Sondaie beinge past , uppon Mondaie my Lord Maior , my
Lord Buckhurste , the M=r=. of the Rooles , my Lord Anderson , M=r=.
Sackford Master of the Requests , S=r=. Rowland Hayward , my selffe ,
M=r=. Owen , and M=r=. Younge , with the assystaunce of M=r=. Attorney
and M=r=. Solicitor , did arraigne one Awfeild , Webley , and Crabbe ,
for sparcinge abrood certen lewed , sedicious , and traytorous bookes ;
ORIGIN2,298.032.562

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Awfeild did most trayterously maynteyne the booke , with longe tedious
and frivolous wordes and speaches . ORIGIN2,298.032.563

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Webley did affirme as much as Awfeild had uttered . ORIGIN2,298.032.564

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They are both executed thorough Gods goodnes and yo=r= Lordshipps good
helpe , as M=r=. Younge told me . ORIGIN2,298.032.565

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There came a Letter to reprive Awfeild , ORIGIN2,298.032.566

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yt was not well digested of as many as knewe of yt ,
ORIGIN2,298.032.567

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but after all was well taken . ORIGIN2,298.032.568

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When he was executed , his bodye was brought into S=t=. Pulchers to be
buryed , ORIGIN2,298.032.569

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the parishioners would not suffer a Traytor 's corpes to be layed
in the earthe where theire parents , wyeffs , chyldren , kynred ,
maisters , and old neighbors did rest : ORIGIN2,298.032.570

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so his carcase was retourned to the buryall grounde neere Tyborne ,
ORIGIN2,298.032.571

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there I leave yt . ORIGIN2,298.032.572

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Crabbe surelye <P_299> did renownce the Pope , ORIGIN2,299.032.573

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my Lords and the rest of the Benche moved M=r=. Attorney and M=r=.
Solicitor to be a meane to her Maiestie for him , ORIGIN2,299.032.574

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for that cause he was stayed . ORIGIN2,299.032.575

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trewelye my Lord it is nothinge needfull to wrytte for the staye of any
to be repryved , ORIGIN2,299.032.576

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there is not any in our Commyssion of London or Middlesex but we
are desirous to save or staye any poore wretche , yf by color of any
lawe or reason we maye doe ytt . ORIGIN2,299.032.577

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My singler good Lord my Lord William of Wynchester was wonte to saye ,
" when the Courte is furthest from London , then is there the best
justice done in all England . " ORIGIN2,299.032.578

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I once hard as great a parsonage in office and authoritye as ever He
was , and yett lyvinge , saye the same wordes . ORIGIN2,299.032.579

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt is growen for a trade nowe in the Courte to make meanes for repryves
, ORIGIN2,299.032.580

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
twentie pownd for a reprive is nothinge , although it be but for bare
tenn daies . ORIGIN2,299.032.581

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I see it will not be holpen onles one honored gentilman , who many
tymes is abused by wronge informacion <paren> and suerlie uppon my
sowle , not uppon any evill meaninge </paren> do staye his penn .
ORIGIN2,299.032.582

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have not one Letter for the staye of a theiffe from your Lordshippe .
ORIGIN2,299.032.583

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fearinge that I trouble your Lordship with my tedious Lettres I end ,
this vij=th=. of Julie 1585 . ORIGIN2,299.032.584

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your good Lordships moste humbly bownden W. Fletewoode .
ORIGIN2,299.032.585

<P_300>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At the endinge of this Lettre I received an othere , the which I will
aunswere owt of hand . ORIGIN2,300.032.586

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Tewsdaie I satt in Jugement in the hustings , where M=r=. Cure and
his corporate bretherne the Sadlers recovered xl=li=. land in a writ of
right ' lon le mise fint ioyne sur le mere droit ' against one Beale .
ORIGIN2,300.032.587

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Upon Weddensday wee satt in Southwark abowt the Goneres where my cossen
Holcroft accused and ' de repetundis ' &c. <font> Archana </font> .
ORIGIN2,300.032.588

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There was one that is called M=r=. Abarrowe that was at the takynge of
the Erle of Arundell , and had gotten into his hands of his nere abowte
$ccc $=li=. {TEXT:ccc=li=.} in gold . ORIGIN2,300.032.589

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He was commanded to brynge the same to the LL. of the Sterre Chamber .
ORIGIN2,300.032.590

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
His man carried it after hym even to the Sterre chamber doore
ORIGIN2,300.032.591

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soddenly his man sterted away ORIGIN2,300.032.592

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tooke a boote , ORIGIN2,300.032.593

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
past into Sowthwarke , ORIGIN2,300.032.594

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
devyded the money , ORIGIN2,300.032.595

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there by my warrant was taken , ORIGIN2,300.032.596

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in effect all the money was had agayne . ORIGIN2,300.032.597

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=. Abarrowe his Master was the lothest man in England to have his
man towched for this offence . ORIGIN2,300.032.598

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I caused hym to be indicted and arreigned . ORIGIN2,300.032.599

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord Anderson tooke it to be no fellonye because his master
delyvered hym the money . ORIGIN2,300.032.600

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sayd it was felonye by the common lawe , because the custodie and
bearing of the money in his masters presens was adjuged to <P_301> be
as if it had ben in his masters owen custodie . ORIGIN2,301.032.601

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As if my butler , my horse keper , my sheperd , or the yoman of my
warderobe do steale and imbesell any thinge in his charge this is
felonye , ORIGIN2,301.032.602

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and even so is it of my purse bearer . ORIGIN2,301.032.603

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it were not felonye by the comen lawe then was it by the statute
, if the somme were above $xl $=s= {TEXT:xl=s=} . ORIGIN2,301.032.604

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I fearynge the matter might be called before my Lords , beinge a
thing so notoriusly knowen , I caused the Jurie to fynd the speciall
matter , ORIGIN2,301.032.605

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so it resteth . ORIGIN2,301.032.606

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I do lerne sithens that the ffelow had ben in tymes past servant to
M=r=. Smith the Clerk of the Pype , &c . ORIGIN2,301.032.607

{COM:LIST_OF_NAMES_OMITTED}

<P_303>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Memorand . ORIGIN2,303.032.608

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That in Wotton 's howse at Smarts Keye are wrytten in a table divers
Poysies , and among the rest one is this <font> Si spie sporte , si non
spie , tunc steale </font> . ORIGIN2,303.032.609

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Another thus <font> Si spie , si non spie , ORIGIN2,303.032.610

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffoyste , ORIGIN2,303.032.611

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nyppe , ORIGIN2,303.032.612

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
lyfte , ORIGIN2,303.032.613

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
shave ORIGIN2,303.032.614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spare not . </font> ORIGIN2,303.032.615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Note that <font> ffoyste </font> is to cutt a pockett , <font> nyppe
</font> is to cutt a purse , <font> lyft </font> is to robbe a shoppe
or a gentilmans chamber , <font> shave </font> is to ffylche a clooke ,
a sword , a sylver sponne or such like , that is negligentlie looked
unto . ORIGIN2,303.032.616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nota , that <font> mylken ken </font> is to commytt a roborie or
burgularie in the night in a dwelling howse , &c . ORIGIN2,303.032.617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:50
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:65
LETTER:ORIGIN2_032:E2:1585:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Right honourable and my synguler good Lord the Lord Highe
Treasorer of England . ORIGIN2,303.032.618

<Q_OR2_A_1586_T_W1FLEETWOOD> <L_ORIGIN2_033> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1535> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1520>

<P_306>

{ED:LETTER_CCXVIII._SERJEANT_FLEETWOOD_TO_LORD_BURGHLEY.}


AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Honorable and my singuler good Lord , this present daye from two
of the clocke until syx , my Lo. Maior , with some of his bretherne
th'Aldermen and myselffe , dyd examyne certene Apprentices for
conspiringe an insurrection in this Cittie agaynst the Frenche and
Dutche , but speciallie against the <P_307> Frenche ; a thinge as lyke
unto yll Maye daie as could be devysed in all manner of circumstaunces
, mutatis mutandis , ORIGIN2,307.033.619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ther wanted nothinge but execucion . ORIGIN2,307.033.620

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have taken fyve , all of an age , yet all under xxj=tie=: fower of
them Darbishier borne ; ORIGIN2,307.033.621

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the fyrste borne in Norhamshier . ORIGIN2,307.033.622

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We are searchinge and seekinge for the principall Captayne ;
ORIGIN2,307.033.623

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
we hope we shall heare of him this night , ORIGIN2,307.033.624

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath ben workinge all this daie in the Whyt hall at Westminster
, ORIGIN2,307.033.625

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at his cominge home we trust to have him . ORIGIN2,307.033.626

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We have this night sett a standinge watche armed , from nyne until
seven in the morninge , ORIGIN2,307.033.627

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and doe meane to contynewe the same soe longe as yt $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} thought convenient unto your honor and the resydewe of my
Lords . ORIGIN2,307.033.628

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=r=. Alderman Woodcocke , who maryed the wydowe of M=r=. Lanyson
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} buried uppon Moundaye next .
ORIGIN2,307.033.629

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
S=r= Rowland Hayward is exstreame sicke and greatlie distressed
ORIGIN2,307.033.630

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<paren> our Lord comfort him </paren> . ORIGIN2,307.033.631

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Ladie his wieffe is likewise verie sicke . ORIGIN2,307.033.632

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This night M=r=. Attorney Generall sent his man unto me to sett my hand
and seale unto a warrant to summon a Quest of enquirie to appeare to
morowe att Westminster Hall . ORIGIN2,307.033.633

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Citizens , when they shall heare of yt , will lyke thereof verie
well , ORIGIN2,307.033.634

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they all crye owt that justice maye be done uppon these Treators .
ORIGIN2,307.033.635

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The foresaid Apprentices , being of the Mysterie of Plastorers , are
commytted unto Newgate uppon the Quenes Highnes and her Councells
commaundement , where <P_308> they are lyke to remayne untill they be
delivered by speciall warrant . ORIGIN2,308.033.636

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is presentlie noe other thinge worthie of writinge . Wherefore I
beseech God to preserve first her Ma=tie= , and then yo=r= Lordship ,
from all these Treators and such other wicked people .
ORIGIN2,308.033.637

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From the Guylde hall this present Twesdaie the sixt of September at
seaven of the clocke in the eveninge 1586 . ORIGIN2,308.033.638

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yo=r= Lo: most humble bownden W. Fletewoode . ORIGIN2,308.033.639

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Att the sendinge away of my man this Weddensday mornynge all the bells
of London do ring for ioye , that , upon the 7 of this monethe , beinge
as this daie , A=o= 25 H. 8. her Grace was borne . ORIGIN2,308.033.640

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} this daie but specially great ffeastinge
at supper . ORIGIN2,308.033.641

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have ben bidden owt this night to supper in vj. or vij. places .
ORIGIN2,308.033.642

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_1:MALE:_:1535:51
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:66
LETTER:ORIGIN2_033:E2:1586:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Right Honorable and my singuler good Lo. the Lo. Treasorer of
England , at the Courte . ORIGIN2,308.033.643
