<B_ORIGIN1>

<Q_OR1_A_1418?_T_HCHICHELE> <L_ORIGIN1_001> <A_HENRY_CHICHELE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1362?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_V>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1386>

<P_3>

{ED:LETTER_II._ARCHBISHOP_CHICHELE_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_FIFTH.}


AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sovereyn Lord , after moost humble recommendacion with hele bothe of
body and of sowle , as zour selfe <P_4> and alle zour liege men desire
, lyke zow to wyte that the first Soneday of Lenton the dwk of Excester
zour huncle sent for me to the Frer Prechours , wer I fond with him
zour preest and bedeman Thomas Fyshborn , ORIGIN1,4.001.1

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther he tok to me zour Lettre wryten with zour owne hond in zour
hoost be fore zour town of Faleys , be the wich I undirstood , as I
have at alle tymes , blessud be Almyzty God , understonde , that a mong
alle zour moost wordly occupacions that any Prince may have in herthe ,
ze desire principaly vertuous lyvyng and zour sowle heele ;
ORIGIN1,4.001.2

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for as myche as my brother of Seint David as was zour confessour is
in his best tyme go to God , ze desire that I shold be the avys of zour
uncle a forseyd send zou in his stede a gode man an a clerk of divinite
to ocupie that offis til zour comyng into zour lond of ynglond .
ORIGIN1,4.001.3

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whan I hadde red zour honurable letter zour uncle a forseyd seyd to
me that he hadde comunyd with Sir Thomas Fyschborn a forseyd be zour
comaundement of this same matier , and whow it semed to hym , if it
lyked me , that Thomas Dyss a frer prechour , mayster of divinite of
the scole of Caumbrygge , wer a good man and a sufficient ther to , and
whow thei hadde comunid with him ther offe , and al so with frere John
Tylle the provincial of the same Ordre ther offe ; ORIGIN1,4.001.4

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and considereng his good name and fame as wel in good <P_5> and honest
lyvyng as in clergie , I assentyd in to the same persone ,
ORIGIN1,5.001.5

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so comuned with hym ther offe , ORIGIN1,5.001.6

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toold him owre comun avis ; ORIGIN1,5.001.7

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he hath ziven his assent ther to ORIGIN1,5.001.8

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ordeyneth hym in alle hast to come to zour presence , so that I hop
he schal be with zou at the same tyme that zour chapel schal come :
ORIGIN1,5.001.9

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and be the grace of God ze schol fynde hym a good man and a spirituel ,
and pleyn to zu with owte feyntese . ORIGIN1,5.001.10

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forthermore towchyng that ze desire to have licence to chese zou a
confessor &c. I sende zu a letter ther offe a seelyd undir my seel ,
with sufficient power to do in that caas al that I myzt do my self in
caas I wer my self in zour roial presence . ORIGIN1,5.001.11

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Towchyng al odr things , I wol wel my lord your brother sendyth to zu
pleynlych : ORIGIN1,5.001.12

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther fore undir zour Grace it semeth to me no more to vexe zour
Hygnesse with myche redyng : prayeng ever almyzty God suych speed to
graunt zou on zour moest ryal Journe that may be to his plesaunce , and
hasty perfourmeng of zour blessud entent , and pees to cristen pepul .
ORIGIN1,5.001.13

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amen . ORIGIN1,5.001.14

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryten at Lamhyth xvj day of Febr . ORIGIN1,5.001.15

AUTHOR:HENRY_CHICHELE:MALE:_:1362?:56?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:32?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_001:M3:1418?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
zour preest and bedeman H. C. ORIGIN1,5.001.16

<Q_OR1_A_1420_T_RWATERTON> <L_ORIGIN1_002> <A_ROBERT_WATERTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_V>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1386>

<P_6>

{ED:LETTER_III._ROBERT_WATERTON_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_FIFTH.}


AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght excellent hegh and ryght myghty Prynce , and most dredde
sovereyne Lorde I recomaunde me to zour heghnes als lowely as any
symple trewe liege man and sugette kan best thynke or devyse , thankyng
all myghty God of zour graciouse spede and right grete conquest wyth
the prosperite of zour awne persone , my lorde of Clarence , my lorde
of Exetre , and all my lordes beyng there in zour worshipfull servyce ,
wyth all the remenaunt of zour right worshipfull oste .
ORIGIN1,6.002.17

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Os I have conceyvid by zour right honorable lettres wrytin at zour
Cytee of Rouen the xij. day of Marche , the whych I have receyvid ryght
late syth Pask , wyth othir zour lettres undir zour Pryve Seale ,
chargyng me to assaye by all the menesse that {by}_P I kan to exyte and
stirre sych as been able gentilmen wythin the shyre and the contree
<P_7> that I dwell in , to kome ovyr to zowe at zour Wage , armyd and
arayde as langys to thaire astate , to do zowe servyce , and for to
certifie als wele to zowe os to zour Counsell of thaire answere and
thaire will , the whych zour hegh comaundement I have bygunne to labour
apon and sall trewely forthe dayly wyth all my myght till I have
perfourmd zour forsayde comaundement . ORIGIN1,7.002.18

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And upon Wedynsdaye next sall zour Justice sitte at Zorke opon the
deliverance of the Gaole there and a Cession of the Pees also , at
which tyme I suppose to speke with many of the gentyls there ,
ORIGIN1,7.002.19

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and als sone aftyr as I maye be answerd I sall certifie os zowe hase
lykid to comaunde me , wyth all the haste possible . ORIGIN1,7.002.20

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght excellent , hegh , and ryght myghty Prynce and moste dredde
sovereyne Lorde I beseche the blissid Trinite to spede zowe and kepe
zowe , and all zour worshipfull oste , and sende zowe sone in to zour
roialme of Inglande wyth a joyouse maryage and a gude pees for his
mykill mercy . ORIGIN1,7.002.21

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writin at zour awne logge of Metheleye the xij daye of Aprill
ORIGIN1,7.002.22

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WATERTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_V:MALE:_:1386:34
LETTER:ORIGIN1_002:M3:1420:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
zour trewe liege man and subgitte Robt. Wat'ton . ORIGIN1,7.002.23

<Q_OR1_A_1450S?_FN_EDWARD4> <L_ORIGIN1_003> <A_EDWARD_IV>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_RICHARD_OF_YORK>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1411>

<P_9>

{ED:LETTER_EDWARD_THE_FOURTH_WHEN_EARL_OF_MARCHE,_AND_HIS_BROTHER_TH
E_EARL_OF_RUTLAND,_TO_THEIR_FATHER_RICHARD_DUKE_OF_YORK.}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght hiegh and ryght myghty Prince , oure ful redouted and ryght noble
lorde and ffadur , as lowely with all oure herts as we youre trewe and
naturell sonnes can or may , we recomaunde us un to your noble grace ,
humbly besechyng your nobley & worthy ffaderhode daily to yeve us your
hertely blessyng : thrugh whiche we trust muche the rather to encrees
and growe to vertu , and to spede the bettur in all matiers and things
that we schall use , occupie , and exercise . ORIGIN1,9.003.24

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght high and ryght myghty Prince , our ful redouted lorde and ffadur
, we thanke our blessed Lorde not oonly of your honourable conduite and
good spede in all your matiers and besynesse , and of your gracious
preuaile ayenst thentent & malice of your evilwillers , but also of the
knowelage that hit pleased your nobley to lete us nowe late have of the
same by relacion of Syr Watier Deureux knyght , and John <P_10>
Milewatier squier , and John at Nokes yemon of your honorable chambur .
ORIGIN1,10.003.25

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also we thonke your noblesse and good ffadurhod of our grene gownes
nowe late sende unto us to our grete comfort ; beseching your good
lordeschip to remembre our porteux , and that we myght have summe fyne
bonetts sende un to us by the next seure messig' , ORIGIN1,10.003.26

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for necessite so requireth . ORIGIN1,10.003.27

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Overe this , ryght noble lord and ffadur , please hit your highnesse to
witte that we have charged your servant William Smyth berer of thees
for to declare un to your nobley certayne things on our behalf , namely
concernyng and touching the odieux reule and demenyng of Richard Crofte
and of his brother . Wherefore we beseche your graciouse lordeschip and
full noble ffadurhood to here him in exposicion of the same , and to
his relacion to yeve ful feith and credence . ORIGIN1,10.003.28

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght hiegh and ryght myghty Prince , our ful redoubted and ryght noble
lorde and ffadur , we beseche almyghty Jhu~ yeve yowe as good lyfe and
long with asmuche contenual perfite prosperite as your princely hert
con best desir . ORIGIN1,10.003.29

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Writen at your Castill of Lodelowe on Setursday in the Astur Woke .
ORIGIN1,10.003.30

AUTHOR:EDWARD_IV:MALE:SON:1442:_
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:FATHER:1411:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_003:M4:1450S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your humble sonnes E. Marche and E. Rutlonde . ORIGIN1,10.003.31

<Q_OR1_A_1452_T_RICHARDY> <L_ORIGIN1_004> <A_RICHARD_OF_YORK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1411> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_14>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_11>

{ED:LETTER_RICHARD_DUKE_OF_YORK_TO_THE_CITIZENS_OF_SHREWSBURY.}_COD
E

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshipful friends , I recommend me unto you , ORIGIN1,11.004.32

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I suppose it is well known unto you , as well by experience as by
common language said and reported throughout all Christendom , what
laud , what worship , honour , and manhood was ascribed of all Nations
unto the people of this Realm , whilst the Kingdom 's Sovereign Lord
stood possessed of his Lordship in the realm of France , and Dutchy of
Normandy ; and what derogation , loss of merchandize , lesion of honour
, and villany , is said and reported generally unto the English nation
, for loss of the same ; namely unto the Duke of Somerset , when he had
the commandance and charge thereof : the which loss hath caused and
encouraged the King 's enemies for to conquer and get Gascony and
Gyanne , ORIGIN1,11.004.33

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now daily they make their advance for to lay siege unto Calais ,
and to other places in the Marches there , for to apply them to their
obeisance , and so for to come into the land with great puissance ; to
the final destruction <P_12> thereof , if they might prevail , and to
put the land in their subjection , which God defend . ORIGIN1,12.004.34

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And on the other part it is to be supposed it is not unknown to you ,
how that , after my coming out of Ireland , I , as the King 's true
liege man , and servant , and ever shall be to my life 's end , and for
my true acquital , perceiving the inconvenience before rehearsed ,
advised his Royal Majesty of certain Articles concerning the weal and
safeguard , as well of his most royal person , as the tranquillity and
conservation of all this his realm : the which Advertisements , how be
it that it was thought that they were full necessary , were laid apart
, and to be of none effect , through the envy , malice , and untruth of
the said Duke of Somerset ; which for my truth , faith , and allegiance
that I owe unto the King , and the good will and favour that I have to
all the Realm , laboureth continually about the Kings Highness for my
undoing , and to corrupt my blood , and to disherit me and my heirs ,
and such persons as be about me , without any desert or cause done or
attempted on my part or theirs , I make our Lord Judge . Wherefore ,
worshipful Friends , to the intent that every man shall know my purpose
, and desire for to declare me such as I am , I signify unto you that
with the help and supportation of Almighty God , and of our Lady , and
of all the Company of Heaven , I , after long sufferance and delays ,
not my will or intent to displease my sovereign Lord , seeing that the
said <P_13> Duke ever prevaileth and ruleth about the King 's person ,
that by this means the land is likely to be destroyed , am fully
concluded to proceed in all haste against him , with the help of my
kinsmen and friends ; in such wise , that it shall prove to promote
ease , peace , tranquillity , and safeguard of all this land : and more
, keeping me within the bounds of my liegeance as it pertaineth to my
duty , praying and exhorting you , to fortify , enforce , and assist me
, and to come to me with all diligence , wheresoever I shall be , or
draw , with as many goodly and likely men as ye may make to execute the
intent abovesaid . ORIGIN1,13.004.35

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written under my signet at my Castle of Ludlow , the 3rd day of
February . ORIGIN1,13.004.36

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Furthermore I pray you , that such strait appointment and ordinance be
made , that the people which shall come in your fellowship , or be sent
unto me by your agreement , be demeaned in such wise , by the way ,
that they do no offence , nor robbery , nor oppression upon the people
, in lesion of justice . ORIGIN1,13.004.37

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written as above , &c. ORIGIN1,13.004.38

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre good Frend R. York . ORIGIN1,13.004.39

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_004:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my right worshipful Friends , the Bailiffs , Burgesses , and Commons
of the good Town of Shroesbury . ORIGIN1,13.004.40

<Q_OR1_C_1492?_T_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_005> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_PIERS_BUTLER[?]>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1467?>

<P_18>

{ED:LETTER_X._KING_HENRY_THE_VII=TH=._TO_THE_EARL_OF_ORMOND.}


AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:35?
RECIPIENT:PIERS_BUTLER[?]:MALE:_:1467?:25?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_005:M4:1492?:COPY:OTHER
By the King . ORIGIN1,18.005.41

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:35?
RECIPIENT:PIERS_BUTLER[?]:MALE:_:1467?:25?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_005:M4:1492?:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and right welbeloved Cousin we greete you wele ,
ORIGIN1,18.005.42

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:35?
RECIPIENT:PIERS_BUTLER[?]:MALE:_:1467?:25?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_005:M4:1492?:COPY:OTHER
and have tidings that our Rebelles landed <P_19> the vth daye of this
Moneth in our land of Irland . Wherfore , and forasmoche as we have
sent for our derrest wif and for our derrest moder to come unto us ,
and that we wold have your advis and counsail also in soche matiers as
we have to doo for the subduyng of our said Rebelles , we praie you
that , yeving your due attendaunce uppon our said derrest wif and lady
moder , ye come with thaym unto us ; not failing herof as ye purpose to
doo us plaisir . ORIGIN1,19.005.43

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:35?
RECIPIENT:PIERS_BUTLER[?]:MALE:_:1467?:25?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_005:M4:1492?:COPY:OTHER
Yeven undre our Signett at our Castell of Kenelworth the xiij daye of
Maye . ORIGIN1,19.005.44

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:35?
RECIPIENT:PIERS_BUTLER[?]:MALE:_:1467?:25?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_005:M4:1492?:COPY:OTHER
To our right trustie and right welbeloved Cousin Th'erl of Ormond ,
Chamberlan to our derrest Wif the Quene . ORIGIN1,19.005.45

<Q_OR1_C_1495?_T_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_006> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_GILBERT_TALBOT_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1553>

<P_19>

{ED:LETTER_KING_HENRY_THE_VII=TH=._TO_SIR_GILBERT_TALBOT,_KNIGHT.}_
@

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
H. R. ORIGIN1,19.006.46

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
By the King . ORIGIN1,19.006.47

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
Trusty and welbeloved we grete you wele . ORIGIN1,19.006.48

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
And not forgeting the grete malice that the lady Margarete <P_20> of
Burgoigne bereth contynuelly against us , as she shewed lately in
sending hider of a fayned boye , surmising him to have been the son of
the Duc of Clarence , and caused him to bee accompanyed with Th'erl of
Lincoln , the Lord Lovel , and with a grete multitude of Irisshemen and
of Almains , whoes end blessed bee God was as ye knowe wele . And
forseing nowe the perseverance of the same her malice , by th'untrue
contriving eftsones of an othr fayned lad called Perkin Warbek , born
at Tournay in Picardy , which at his furst into Irland called himself
the bastard son of king Richard ; after that the son of the said Duc of
Clarence ; and now the secund son of our fadre King Edward the iiij=th=
, whom God assoille ; werethorough she entendeth by promising unto the
Flemynges and othr of Th'archedukes obeissaunce , to whom she laboureth
dailly to take her way , and , by hir promes to c'tain aliens Capitains
of estrange nacions , to have Duchies , Counties , Baronies , and othr
landes within this our Royaume to induce theim therby to lande her to
the distruction and disinheritaunce of the noble men and other our
subgiettes thinhabitantes of the same , and finally to the subversion
of this our Royaume in cas she may atteigne to her malicious propos
that God defende . We therfor , and to thentent that we may be alway
purveied and in aredynes to resiste her malice , write unto you at this
tyme ; ORIGIN1,20.006.49

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
and wol and desire you that prepairing on <P_21> horsbak , defensibly
arraied , four score personnes , wherof we desire you to make asmany
speres with their custrelles and di. lances wele horsed as ye can
furnisshe , and the remaynder to bee archers and billes , ye bee
thoroughly appointed and redy to comme upon a day warnyng for to do us
service of warre in this caas . ORIGIN1,21.006.50

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
And ye $shall $have {TEXT:shalhave} for every horsman wele and
defensibly arrayed , that is to say for a spere and his custrel xij=d=.
a di. lance ix=d=. and an archer or bille on horsback viij=d=. by the
day , from the tyme of zour commyng out unto the tyme of your retourne
to your home again . ORIGIN1,21.006.51

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
And thus doing ye shall deserve suche thankes of us for your loving and
true acquitaill in that behalf as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to your
weale and honor for tyme to come . ORIGIN1,21.006.52

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
We praye you herein ye wol make suche delegens as that ye be redy with
your said nombre to come unto us uppon any our sodein warnyng .
ORIGIN1,21.006.53

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
Yeven undr our Signet at oure Castel of Kenilworth the xx. day of July
. ORIGIN1,21.006.54

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:38?
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-58?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_006:M4:1495?:COPY:OTHER
To oure trusty and welbeloved Knight and Conseillor Sir Gilbert Talbot
. ORIGIN1,21.006.55

<Q_OR1_C_1497_T_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_007> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_GILBERT_TALBOT_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1553>

<P_32>

{ED:LETTER_SECOND_LETTER_OF_KING_HENRY_THE_VII=TH=._TO_SIR_GILBERT
_TALBOT._A._D._1497.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
H. R. ORIGIN1,32.007.56

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
By the King . ORIGIN1,32.007.57

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
Trusty and welbeloved we grete you wele , signifying unto you that wher
as Perkin Warbek and his wif were lately sette ful porely to the See by
the King of Scottes , and aftre that landed within our land of Irland
in the wylde Irissherie , where he had be taken by our Cousins Th'erls
of Kildare and of Desmond if he and his said wif had not secretly
stollen away . The same Perkyn being soe upon the See , is commen to
land in our Countie of Cornewaille with ij. small shippes and a Breton
prinse , wherupon we have sent <P_33> our right trusty counseillour the
lord Daubeney our chamberlayn by land toward thoes parties , to arredie
our subgiettes for the subduyng of hym , and our right trusty
counseillour the lord Broke , steward of our household , by water with
our armee on the See now late retourned , to take the said Perkyn if he
retorne agayn to the See . ORIGIN1,33.007.58

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
And we shall in our owne persone , if the case soo requir , goo soe
accompanyed thiderward with our lordes mercy withoute delay , as we
shal subdue the said Perkyn and all othre that wil take his part if eny
such be . ORIGIN1,33.007.59

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
And therfore we hertily pray you to addresse you unto us with six score
talle men on horsback defensibly arrayed , and no moo , without eny
long delay . And to mete with us at our manoir of Wodestok the
xxiiij=th= day of this present Moneth ; ORIGIN1,33.007.60

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
and at your commyng unto us we shal soe content your for your and thair
conduyt money , and also wages , as of reason ye shal holde you pleased
; ORIGIN1,33.007.61

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
and that ye faille not herof as our espesial trust is in you .
ORIGIN1,33.007.62

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
Zeven undre {TEXT:undre} our Signet at our said Manoir the xijth day of
Septembre . ORIGIN1,33.007.63

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:40
RECIPIENT:GILBERT_TALBOT_1:MALE:_:1553:-56
LETTER:ORIGIN1_007:M4:1497:COPY:OTHER
" To our trusty and welbeloved knight for our body Sir Gilbert Talbot .
" ORIGIN1,33.007.64

<Q_OR1_C_1490S_T_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_008> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_OLIVER_KING>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_34>

{ED:LETTER_XV._KING_HENRY_VIITH_TO_THE_BISHOP_OF_BATH_AND_WELLS.}


{COM:TO_DR._OLIVER_KING}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
By the Kinge ORIGIN1,34.008.65

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Right reverend father in God , right trusty and welbeloved wee greete
yow well , ORIGIN1,34.008.66

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
and have received your wryteinge by the which wee conceive how there is
word that Perkin is landed . ORIGIN1,34.008.67

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Truth it is that hee is soe landed , and at our Commons of Cornwall
take his parte , amongst whom on Munday last the eighteenth day of
September there was not one gentleman . ORIGIN1,34.008.68

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
On Sunday the seaventeenth of September , Perkin and his company came
afore our Citty of Excester about one , after noone ; ORIGIN1,34.008.69

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
and there inranged themselves in the manner of a battell by the space
of two howers . ORIGIN1,34.008.70

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Within that our Citty were our couzen of Devonshire , Sir William
Courtney , Sir Jo. Sapcotes , Sir Piers Edgecombe , Sir Jo. Croker ,
Sir Walter Courteney , Sir Humfrey Fulforth , with many other noble men
both-1 of our Counties of Devonshire and Cornewall . ORIGIN1,34.008.71

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
This Perkin sent for to have deliverance of our said Citty , which was
denyed <P_35> unto him by our said couzen . Whereupon Perkin and his
company went to the East gate , and to the Norther gate , and assaulted
the same , ORIGIN1,35.008.72

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
but it was soe defended <paren> blessed bee God </paren> that Perkin
lost above three or foure hundred men of his company , and so failed of
his intention . ORIGIN1,35.008.73

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
On the morrow after , the eighteenth day , Perkin and our rebels made a
new assalt at the said Norther gate and Ester gate , like as by the
Copy of the lettres from our said couzen of Devonshire inclosed yee
shall move to understand more at large . ORIGIN1,35.008.74

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
The Perkin and his company , if they come forward , shall find before
them our Chamberlayn , our Steward of Houshould , the Lord Saint
Mourice , Sir John Cheney , and the Noblemen of Southwales and of our
Counties of Gloster , Wiltshire , Hamshire , Somersett , and Dorcet ;
and at their backe the garison of our said City of Excester .
ORIGIN1,35.008.75

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
And wee with our hoast royall shall not be farre , with the mercy of
our Lord , for the finall conclusion of the matter . ORIGIN1,35.008.76

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Wee have done proclaimed alsoo that who soe bringeth the said Perkin on
live unto us hee shall have the some of a thousand marks , and all
those that give theire offences first and last . ORIGIN1,35.008.77

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Wee trust soone to heare good tydings of the said Perkin .
ORIGIN1,35.008.78

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_KING:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_008:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Yeoven under our Signet at our Mannor of Woodstocke the twentith of
September . ORIGIN1,35.008.79

<Q_OR1_C_1490S?_T_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_009> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1457> <R_WILLIAM_SAY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_39>

{ED:LETTER_XIX._KING_HENRY_VIITH_TO_SIR_WILLIAM_SAY.}


<P_40>

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
By the King . ORIGIN1,40.009.80

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Trusty and welbeloved , We grete you wele . ORIGIN1,40.009.81

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
And have herde to our great displeaser , that , for a certain variance
and controversie depending betwix you on the oon partie and Sir John
Fortescu on the othr , ye entende with unliefull assembles and
conventicles of our people to be at the Sessions next to be holden
within our Countie of Hertford , to thaffraying of our Peas , and
distourbance of the same Sessions , which we ne wold , in eschueing
such trouble and inconvenients that by likelyhode might therupon ensue
. Wherfore we write unto you at this tyme , commanding you in the
straitest wise , that , leving the said assembles , ye forber to bee at
the said Sessions , and neither doo ner procure to be doon any thing
there , privately or apertely , repugnant to the equitie of our Lawes
or rupture of our said Peas , at your uttermost perell . And also that
immediately after the sight hereof ye addresse you unto our presence ,
to knowe our further mynde and pleasur in the premesses .
ORIGIN1,40.009.82

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Lating you wite that we have writen in like wise herein to the said Sir
John . ORIGIN1,40.009.83

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Yeven under our Signet at our paloys of Westminster the xxiij day of
February . ORIGIN1,40.009.84

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:_:1457:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_SAY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_009:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
To our Trusty and welbeloved Knight Sir William Say . ORIGIN1,40.009.85

<Q_OR1_CA_1504?_FN_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_010>
<A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_DAUGHTER>
<A-DOB_1489> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VII> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER>
<R-DOB_1457>

<P_41>

{ED:LETTER_MARGARET_QUEEN_OF_SCOTLAND_TO_HER_FATHER_KING_HENRY_THE_
VII=TH=._THE_LAST_NINE_LINES_ONLY_IN_THE_QUEEN'S_HAND.}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most dere lorde and fader in the most humble wyse that {in} I can
thynke I recummaund me unto your Grace besechyng you off your dayly
blessyng , and that it will please you to yeve hartely thankes to all
your servauntts the whych be your commaundement have geven ryght good
attendaunce on me at this tyme , and specially to all thes ladies and
jantilwomen which hath accompeneyed me hydder , and to geff credence to
thys good lady the berar her off , ORIGIN1,41.010.86

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I have showde hyr mor off my mynd than I will wryght at thys tyme .
ORIGIN1,41.010.87

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , I beseche your Grace to be good and gracious <P_42> lorde to
Thomas , whych was footman to the Quene my moder , whos sowle God have
soyle ; ORIGIN1,42.010.88

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hath byn on off my fotemen hydder with as great diligence and
labur to hys great charge of his awne good and true mynde .
ORIGIN1,42.010.89

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am not able to recumpence hym , except the favor off your Grace .
ORIGIN1,42.010.90

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , as for newys I have none to send , but that my lorde of Surrey ys
yn great favor with the Kyng her that he $can $not {TEXT:cannott}
forber the companey off hym no tyme off the day . ORIGIN1,42.010.91

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He and the bichopp off Murrey orderth every thyng as nyght as they can
to the Kyngs pleasur . ORIGIN1,42.010.92

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God it may be for my por hartts ease in tyme to come .
ORIGIN1,42.010.93

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They $cal $not {TEXT:calnot} my Chamberlayne to them , whych I am sur
wull speke better for my part than any off them that ben off that
consell . ORIGIN1,42.010.94

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And iff he speke any thyng for my cause my lord of Surrey hath such
wordds unto hym that he dar speke no furder . ORIGIN1,42.010.95

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God send me comford to hys pleasur , and that I and myne that ben
lefftt her with me be well entretid such wayse as they have taken .
ORIGIN1,42.010.96

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For Godes sak Syr , oulde mea escwsyd that I wryt not my sylf to your
Grace , ORIGIN1,42.010.97

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I han no layfyr thys tym , ORIGIN1,42.010.98

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bot wyt a wishse I would I wer wyt your Grace now , and many tyms mor ,
wan I wold andsyr . ORIGIN1,42.010.99

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for thys that I have wrytyn to your Grace , yt ys wery tru ,
ORIGIN1,42.010.100

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bot I pray God I may fynd yt wel for my welef erefter .
ORIGIN1,42.010.101

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more to your Grace at this tym , bot our Lord han <P_43> you en ys
kepyng . ORIGIN1,43.010.102

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1489:15?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:FATHER:1457:47?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_010:E1:1504?:CA:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn wyt the hand of your humble douter Margaret . ORIGIN1,43.010.103

<Q_OR1_A_1500S_FN_HENRY7> <L_ORIGIN1_011> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1457> <R_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_1489>

<P_43>

{ED:LETTER_KING_HENRY_THE_VIITH_TO_HIS_MOTHER,_MARGARET_COUNTESS_O
F_RICHMOND.}

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Madam , my most enterely wilbeloved Lady and Moder , I recommende me
unto you in the most humble and lauly wise that {in} I can , beseeching
you of your dayly and continuall blessings . ORIGIN1,43.011.104

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By your Confessour the berrer I have reseived your good and most loving
wryting , ORIGIN1,43.011.105

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and by the same have herde at good leisure such credense as he would
shewe unto me on your behalf , ORIGIN1,43.011.106

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thereupon have spedde him in every be halve withowte delai
according to yowr noble petition <P_44> and desire , which restith in
two principall poynts : ORIGIN1,44.011.107

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the one for a generall pardon for all manner causes :
ORIGIN1,44.011.108

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the other is for to altre and chaunge part of a Lycense which I had
gyven unto you before for to be put into mortmain at Westmynster ; and
now to be converted into the University of Cambridge for your Soule
helthe , &c . All which thyngs according to your desire and plesure I
have with all my herte and goode wille giffen and graunted unto you .
ORIGIN1,44.011.109

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And my Dame , not onely in this but in all other thyngs that I may
knowe should be to youre honour and plesure and weale of youre salle I
shall be as glad to plese you as youre herte can desire hit ,
ORIGIN1,44.011.110

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I knowe welle that I am as much bounden so to doe as any creture
lyvyng , for the grete and singular moderly love and affection that hit
hath plesed you at all tymes to ber towards me . Wherfore myne owen
most lovyng moder , in my most herty manner I thank you , beseeching
you of your goode contynuance in the same . ORIGIN1,44.011.111

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Madame , your said Confessour hath more over shewne unto me on
youre behalve that ye of your goodnesse and kynde disposition have
gyven and graunted unto me such title and intereste as ye have or ought
to have in such debts and duties which is oweing and dew unto you in
Fraunce by ye Frenche Kynge and others , wherfore Madame in my most
herty and humble wise I thanke You . ORIGIN1,44.011.112

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeit I verrayly $think hit will be ryght harde to recover hit <P_45>
without hit be dryven by compulsion and force , rather than by any true
justice which is not yet al we thynke any convenyant tyme to be put in
execution . ORIGIN1,45.011.113

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nevertheless it hath plesed you to gyve us a good interest & meane if
they woull not conforme thayme to rayson and good justice to diffende
or offende at a convenyant tyme when the caas shall so require herafter
. ORIGIN1,45.011.114

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For such a chaunce may fall that thys your graunte might stande in
grete stead for a recovery of our Right , and to make us free , wheras
we be now bounde &c . ORIGIN1,45.011.115

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And verrayly Madame , and I myht recover hit at this tyme or any other
, Ye be sure ye shulde have your plesure therin , as I and all that God
has given me is and shall ever $be at youre will and commaundment , as
I have instructed Master Fisher more largely herin , as I doubte not
but he wolle declare unto you . ORIGIN1,45.011.116

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I beseeche you to sende me youre mynde and plesure in the same ,
which I shall be full glad to followe with Goddis grace , which sende
and gyve unto you the full accomplyshment of all youre noble and
vertuous desyrs . ORIGIN1,45.011.117

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Written at Grenewiche the 17 day of July , with the hande of youre most
humble and lovynge sonne H. R. ORIGIN1,45.011.118

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After the wryting of thys Letter , your Confessour delyvered unto me
such Letters and wrytings obligatory of your duties in Fraunce which
hit hath plesed <P_46> you to sende unto me , which I have received by
an Indenture of every parcell of ye same . Wherfore eftsoons in my most
humble wise I thank you , and I purpose hereafter , at better leisure ,
to knowe youre mynde and plesure further therein . ORIGIN1,46.011.119

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Madame I have encombred you now with thys my longe wrytings ,
ORIGIN1,46.011.120

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but me thyngks that I can doo no less , considering that hit is so
selden that I do wryte , wherfore I beseeche you to pardon me ,
ORIGIN1,46.011.121

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for verrayly Madame my syghte is nothing so perfitt as it has ben ;
ORIGIN1,46.011.122

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I know well hit will appayre dayly ; wherfore I trust that you will
not be displesed though I wryte not so often with myne owne hand ,
ORIGIN1,46.011.123

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for on my fayth I have ben three dayes or I colde make an ende of this
Letter . ORIGIN1,46.011.124

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1489:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_011:E1:1500S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To My Lady . ORIGIN1,46.011.125

<Q_OR1_A_1490S?_FN_MBEAUFORT> <L_ORIGIN1_012>
<A_MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VII> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1457>

<P_46>

{ED:LETTER_MARGARET_MOTHER_OF_HENRY_THE_VIITH,_TO_HER_SON;_SIGNIN
G_AS_QUEEN.}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My oune suet and most deere Kynge and all my worldly joy , yn as humble
maner as {in} y can thynke y recommand me to your Grace ,
ORIGIN1,46.012.126

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and moste hertely beseche <P_47> our lord to blesse you ;
ORIGIN1,47.012.127

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my good herte wher that you sa that the Frenshe Kyng hathe at thys
tyme gevyn me courteyse answer and wretyn ... lettyre of favour to hys
corte of Parlyment for the treve expedicyon of my mater whyche soo long
hathe hangyd , the whyche y well know he dothe expecially for your sake
, for the whyche my ... ly beseeche your Grace yt ... to gyve hym your
favourabyll ... thanks and to desyr hym to contenew hys ... yn . e . me
. ORIGIN1,47.012.128

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , yeve yt soo myght leke your Grace , to do the same to the
Cardynall , whyche as I understond ys your feythfull trew and lovyng
servant . Y wysse my very joy , as y efte have shewed ,
ORIGIN1,47.012.129

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and y fortune to gete thys or eny parte therof , ORIGIN1,47.012.130

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther shall nedyr be that or eny good y have but yt $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} yours , and at your comaundement as seurly and with as
good a wyll as eny ye have yn your cofyrs , as wuld God ye cowd know yt
as veryly as y thynke yt . ORIGIN1,47.012.131

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But my der herte , y wull no more encombyr your Grace with ferder
wrytyng yn thys matter , ORIGIN1,47.012.132

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for y ame seure your chapeleyn and servante Doctour Whytston hathe
shewed your Hyghnes the cyrcomstance of the same . ORIGIN1,47.012.133

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yeve yt soo may plese your Grace , y humbly beseche the same to
yeve ferdyr credense also to thys berer . ORIGIN1,47.012.134

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Our Lord gyve you as longe good lyfe , helthe , and joy , as your
moste nobyll herte can dessyre , with as herty blessyngs as our Lord
hathe gevyn me power to <P_48> gyve you . ORIGIN1,48.012.135

AUTHOR:MARGARET_TUDOR[N.BEAUFORT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VII:MALE:SON:1457:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_012:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Colynweston the xiiij=th= day of January , by your feythfull trewe
bedwoman , and humble modyr , Margaret R. ORIGIN1,48.012.136

<Q_OR1_A_1513_FN_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_013> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1489> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_64>

{ED:LETTER_MARGARET_QUEEN_OF_SCOTLAND_TO_KING_HENRY_VIII=TH=.}_COD
E

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richt excellennt , richt hie and mithty Prince , our derrest and best
belovit Brothir , We commend ws unto zow in oure maist hertlie wise .
ORIGIN1,64.013.137

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Zoure ambassadoure Doctoure West deliverit ws zoure lovyng lettrez in
quhiwis ze schew ws that quhare ze harde of our seiknes ze tuke grete
hevynes . ORIGIN1,64.013.138

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Deerest brother We ar greitly rejosit that we se ze have respect to
oure <P_65> disese , ORIGIN1,65.013.139

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thairfor We geve zou oure hartlie thankis , ORIGIN1,65.013.140

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and zoure writing is to ws gude confort . ORIGIN1,65.013.141

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We can nocht beleve that of zoure mynd or be zoure command we are sa
friendly delt with in oure faderis Legacy , quharof we wald nocht have
spokyn nor writing had nocht the Doctoure now spokyn to ws of the
sammyn in his credence . ORIGIN1,65.013.142

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Oure husband knawis it is withhaldin for his saik , ORIGIN1,65.013.143

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will recompens ws safer as the Doctoure schew him .
ORIGIN1,65.013.144

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We ar eschamit thairwith ; ORIGIN1,65.013.145

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wald God nevir word had bene tharof . ORIGIN1,65.013.146

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is nocht worth sic estimacioun as is in zoure divers lettrez of the
sammyn ; ORIGIN1,65.013.147

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and we lak na thing ; ORIGIN1,65.013.148

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
our husband is evir the langer the better to ws , as knawis God , quha
richt hie and michty Prince , oure derrest and bestbelovit brothir ,
have zou in governaunce . ORIGIN1,65.013.149

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Geven under oure Signete at oure Palace of Linlithg=w=. the xj day of
Aprile . ORIGIN1,65.013.150

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your lowynn syster Margaret . ORIGIN1,65.013.151

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:24
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_013:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To the richt excellent richt hie and michty Prince oure derrest and
best belovit brothir the King of England . ORIGIN1,65.013.152

<Q_OR1_A_1513_T_TDACRE> <L_ORIGIN1_014> <A_THOMAS_DACRE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_92>

{ED:LETTER_THOMAS_LORD_DACRE_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH._A._D._151
3.}

<P_93>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleas it your Highnes to knowe I have receyved your most honourable
Lettres of your gracious thanks for my pure service done to your Grace
according to my dieuty , which is to me the most singler comforth and
rejoysing I can have ; ORIGIN1,93.014.153

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for by the same I well perceyve yo=r= Highnes regardeth not the
sinistre reaport or rumor surmised ayenst me , ne your Grace regardeth
or geveth ony credence thereunto , wherby I am bounde the rather to
doun to your Highnes the most laudable and acceptable service I can or
may do , and so shall undoutedly at all my power : ORIGIN1,93.014.154

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and where as by the same your most honorable letters I understond your
pleasor and commaundment is that I shold effectually procede to the
spedy execucion of ij Roods opon the West and Medyll Marches to the
most annoyaunce of the Scotts that I possibly may , like it your Grace
to knowe Opon Thuresday last past I assembled your subgietts in
Northumbreland to the nombre of a thousand <P_94> horsmen , and rode in
at Gallespeth and so to the watre of Kale two myle within Scotland ,
and there set furth two foreyes ; my broder Philipp Dacre with ccc. men
which burnt and distroyed the Town of Rowcastell with all the cornes in
the same and thereabouts , and wan two towres in it , and burnt both
roffe and flores : ORIGIN1,94.014.155

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Sir Roger Fenwike with ccc. men burnt the Town of Langton and
distroyed all the cornes therein : which Townes er in the hert of the
countre two myle beyond Jedworth opon the watere of Chevyot .
ORIGIN1,94.014.156

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I come with a stale to a place called the Dungyon , a myle from
Jedworth , ORIGIN1,94.014.157

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so went to the Sclater furd on the water of Bowset ,
ORIGIN1,94.014.158

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there the Scotts persewed us right sore , ORIGIN1,94.014.159

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ther bekered with us , ORIGIN1,94.014.160

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave us hand stroks ; ORIGIN1,94.014.161

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there come thre standards to bak theym , that is to say David Karr of
Fernehirst and the lard of Boudgedworth opon the oon side , and the
sheriff of Tevidale on the othre side , with the nombre of dcc. men or
mo . ORIGIN1,94.014.162

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lard of Walghope was hurt there with oon arrowe and his hors slane
; ORIGIN1,94.014.163

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mark Trumbill was strikken with a spere and the hede left in hym ,
ORIGIN1,94.014.164

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his hors was won , ORIGIN1,94.014.165

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and diverse Scotesmen were hurt there . ORIGIN1,94.014.166

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so we come forwards , where we saw my broder Syr Cristofer Dacre
with his oste arreyed at a place called the Bellyng , which was to us
no litill comforth , and to hym gret gladnes seyng the small power we
were of at that tyme . ORIGIN1,94.014.167

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My said broder come in at Cressopbrige ORIGIN1,94.014.168

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there <P_95> entred the Medyll marches , ORIGIN1,95.014.169

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so come thorow Ledesdale to the rughes wyre , xiiij myle within the
ground of Scotland , ORIGIN1,95.014.170

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there he put furth two forreyes : Syr John Ratclif with fyve
hundreth men in oon , which burnt the town of Dyker sex myle from the
said swyre with a towre in the same , ORIGIN1,95.014.171

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thei layed corne and straw to the dore ORIGIN1,95.014.172

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and burnt it both rofe and flore , ORIGIN1,95.014.173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so smoked theym owt . ORIGIN1,95.014.174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also the said Syr John and his company burnt the Townnes of Sowdon and
Lurchestrother with a towre in it , ORIGIN1,95.014.175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and distroyed all the cornes about theym ORIGIN1,95.014.176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke diverse prisoners with much insight and goods .
ORIGIN1,95.014.177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nicholes Haryngton , Nicholes Rydley , Thomas Medilton , and George
Skelton with othre to the nombre of fyve hundreth in the othre forrey
burnt the towne of Hyndhalghehede and a towre in the same flore and
rofe ; and in likewise the townnes of West sawsyde and Est sawsyde ,
with a Pele of lyme and stane in it : ORIGIN1,95.014.178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my said broder Syr Cristofer , with two thousand horsmen and cccc.
fute men with bowes for savegard of thost in strayts come in a stale to
Dykerawe ; ORIGIN1,95.014.179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there the said forreyes releved to hym , ORIGIN1,95.014.180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so come forward ORIGIN1,95.014.181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and met me . ORIGIN1,95.014.182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We had not rydden above the space of a myle when we sawe the Lord
Chambrelane appere in our sight with ij M. men , and four standerds ;
ORIGIN1,95.014.183

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the othre thre standerds resorted to hym ORIGIN1,95.014.184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so the countre drew fast to theym . ORIGIN1,95.014.185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We put us in arreye ORIGIN1,95.014.186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and come homeworde ORIGIN1,95.014.187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and rode no faster then nowr <P_96> shepp and swyne that we had won
wold dryve , which was of no gret substance , ORIGIN1,96.014.188

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the countre was warned of our comyng and the bekyns burnt fro
mydnyght forward . ORIGIN1,96.014.189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And when the Scotts had geven us overe we retourned home
ORIGIN1,96.014.190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and come in at the Redeswyre . ORIGIN1,96.014.191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I come to Harbotill at mydnyght : ORIGIN1,96.014.192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
my broder Syr Cristofer lay that night at the towre of Otterburne , and
opon the morne to Hexham , and his folks in other townnes opon the
water of Tyne , and , on the thrid day at home , as many as might git .
ORIGIN1,96.014.193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I se not the gentilmen of the countre in a redynes for defence of
your bordoures , ORIGIN1,96.014.194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for certen of theym to whome I had geven warnyng , as my Lord Ogle
which promised to com to me , the constable of Alnewike , and othre ,
trustyng thei wold have bene glad to do your Grace service accordingly
as thei have done to your Wardens in tyme of werre , come not to me at
the place appoynted , wherby I was not accompayned as I thoght to have
bene . ORIGIN1,96.014.195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was councelled and avised by my guyds to have rejorned my purpose ,
ORIGIN1,96.014.196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so wold have done , but oonly that I had appoynted with my broder
Syr Cristofer to mete hym in Scotland , ORIGIN1,96.014.197

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he departed fro me to the West Merches to bryng my folks from thens
whome I might not disappoynt ORIGIN1,96.014.198

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I had no space to gif him warnyng , ORIGIN1,96.014.199

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it was xxx=ti=. myle fro me and more , ORIGIN1,96.014.200

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and els I had not keped my purpose which not is performed thanked be
Jhesu , and all your subgietts in savety bot a servaunt of myn , which
was <P_97> killed there , ORIGIN1,97.014.201

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and two Scotts were slain and many othre hurt the same tyme .
ORIGIN1,97.014.202

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleas it your Grace , as for the Rode to be made opon your West marche
I can not se how it can be done conveniently unto the next light , for
two consideracions , ORIGIN1,97.014.203

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
oon is bycause I dar not be absent of this Medill March during this
light , for fere the Scotts schold distroye and burne the countrie in
myn absence , which I regard gretly ; ORIGIN1,97.014.204

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and oon othre is that my servants horses which come to this Rode was
sore labored , ORIGIN1,97.014.205

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thei rode xxviij=ti= owres without any bayte . ORIGIN1,97.014.206

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in the next light I shall , God willing , performe the said rode ;
ORIGIN1,97.014.207

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in the meane tyme shall cause small Rodes be made , which $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} as gret annoyaunce to the Scotts as a great Rode
shold be , ORIGIN1,97.014.208

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thus shall yo=r= money be employed to the best I can , and for the
grettiest hurt and destruccion of the Scotts ; ORIGIN1,97.014.209

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} as goode a husband thereof as I wold be
of myn awn , ORIGIN1,97.014.210

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alwey I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} redy to gif accompt of the same at
your pleasure . ORIGIN1,97.014.211

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also pleas it your Grace me seamnes it were necessary that yo=r=
lettres of commaundment were direct to my lord of Northumbreland and to
my Lord of Clifford , to cause their tenaunts gif attendance opon your
Wardens as thei have bene accustomed to do in tymes passed ,
ORIGIN1,97.014.212

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as I understond my Lord Cliffords tenaunts er warned not to ride
without his speciall commaundment . ORIGIN1,97.014.213

<P_98>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for Newes of Scotland , like it your Grace to know , John of Barton
which passed into Fraunce in the Navye of Scotland , launded at
Kirkobrighe and ther toke seknes and disceced of the same .
ORIGIN1,98.014.214

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There hase bene a gret councell at Saynt Johnstone , ORIGIN1,98.014.215

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all the lords of Scotland was there with the Quene .
ORIGIN1,98.014.216

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is determined by theym that the Bisshop of Aberdene $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} Archbisshopp of saynt Andrewes : ORIGIN1,98.014.217

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the bisshopp of Catnes $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} bishop of Aberdene ;
ORIGIN1,98.014.218

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
a broder of therl of Adthills shall have Catnes . ORIGIN1,98.014.219

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Abbaye of Arbrothe is geven to Master George Douglas therl of
Anguyse son : th'abbaye of Dunfermlyn to Master James Hebburne : the
Priory of Coldynghame to the lord Chambrelane broder :
ORIGIN1,98.014.220

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and a broder of David Karrs of Farnehirst is entred by force into the
Abbacye of Kelso ORIGIN1,98.014.221

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and enjoyes it by intrusion . ORIGIN1,98.014.222

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also it is aggreed by the said Councell that the Castell of Sterling
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} vetelled and fortified in all hayst possible ,
and the lord Borthwike $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} capitane of the same ,
and have the yong King in his keping there , and he not to be removed
without assent of the hole councell . ORIGIN1,98.014.223

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At the same councell a communication was had , which Lords shold haue
the rewll of the lands for well and sou'te of the realme ,
ORIGIN1,98.014.224

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot thei aggreed not thereopon ; ORIGIN1,98.014.225

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed from thens at that tyme . ORIGIN1,98.014.226

<P_99>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Therl of Aren , admirall of Scotland , is commen home with the Shippes
of Scotland , and a French Knight with hym which hase broght writtings
and credence from the French King and the Duke of Albany ;
ORIGIN1,99.014.227

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what it is I know not as yit , ORIGIN1,99.014.228

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot I shall endevor me to git knowlege thereof . ORIGIN1,99.014.229

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thre of the grettest shippes of Scotland er left in Fraunce to the
spryng of the yere , to th'entent thei may assist the French navye as
it is supposed . ORIGIN1,99.014.230

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The gret Shipp of Scotland was ron on grounde , ORIGIN1,99.014.231

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot sho is recovered as thei say or theire Admirall departed .
ORIGIN1,99.014.232

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Scottishe soldiours which be commen home makes evill reaport of the
French King , sayng thei were not well entreated there :
ORIGIN1,99.014.233

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as newes $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} occurrant in thies parties your
Grace $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} advertised by the grace of Almighti God
, whome I besech to preseve your most honorable estate .
ORIGIN1,99.014.234

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Harbotill the xiij=th=. day of Novembre at vj. of the clok in the
mornyng . ORIGIN1,99.014.235

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your humble subgyet Thomas Dacre . ORIGIN1,99.014.236

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:22
LETTER:ORIGIN1_014:E1:1513:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Kings Highnes . ORIGIN1,99.014.237

<Q_OR1_A_1514_T_WBURBANK> <L_ORIGIN1_015> <A_WILLIAM_BURBANK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_99>

{ED:LETTER_XXXV._WILLIAM_BURBANK_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


<P_100>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleas it your most excellent Grace to witt , that , as touchyng the
cause ... deithe of my Lorde and Master my Lorde Cardinall , your
Graces late Orator , <P_101> because that , aswell affore his departor
by the Phisecians , as aftur by a ... man that oppynyd his body by the
Popis commandmentt , itt was juged ... he shuld have been posonyd , or
att the leste grett tokens and as some ... saide manyfest thyngs therof
apperide , the Popes said holines haith sith caused moste diligentt and
exactt examynacion to be maide uppon the same . ORIGIN1,101.015.238

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And by cause that it was known all most manyfestlie that the busshop of
Worcestr , now y=r= Graces Orator , was enymye unto my said Lorde , itt
was sodenlie noiside throughe the citie that he shulde have ... auctor
of this great pretendid offence . ORIGIN1,101.015.239

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A certan prest namyd Ranalde .. Modena was moche in my lords chamber ,
and alway dere and fa ... with the said busshop of Worcestr .
ORIGIN1,101.015.240

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Uppon suspicion he was taken by ... Popis commandment and sett in
Castill Angill . ORIGIN1,101.015.241

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By cause that I shuld conduce home my said Lords companye , and com
unto your Grace his Holines commandide me to be contynually at the said
examynacion d ... by the Auditor of the Chamber , the castellan , two
bisshops , and the Fiscall , with sundrie notaries ; to th'ententt that
I seing the ordor thereof shuld soo make relacion unto your Grace .
ORIGIN1,101.015.242

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I taryed there whils thre days aftur my said Lords departor wer
expiride ; soo that then our company ... no house to tary in butt muste
neds departt . ORIGIN1,101.015.243

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All this tyme the said Rainalde wold no thyng <P_102> graunt of his
offence or knowledge commyttide in this bihalfe . Albe itt he
graunttide that mony tymes he revelate my lords secretts unto the said
busshop , and sundrie oder thynges wherby the Juges eft ... hym worthy
to suffre tortour : and delivered unto his lernydt counsaill a ... of
his said confession for his defence , with sufficientt respett of tyme
to aunswer unto the same according to the law . Wheruppon supposing no
... confession to have been made by the said Ranalde I tooke my leaf a
... Popis Holines , and soo my Journey homwarde , this night being in
..._NP of Florence . ORIGIN1,102.015.244

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your trewe and faithfull Servante my felow Master Richard Pace haith
sentt unto me his Lettres desiring me to advertise Your Grace uppon ...
contenttes of the same . ORIGIN1,102.015.245

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He writithe that the said Ranalde within ... tyme of his deliberacion
to aunswer frelie and withoutt manyshing o ... ony creator haith
oppenlie confesside that he hym self putt poson into my said lords
potage att the desire and conduction therunto of the busshop of
Worcestr ; ORIGIN1,102.015.246

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this he did soon aftur the fest of Corpus Christi laste .
ORIGIN1,102.015.247

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He confesside that the said busshop yeve hym for his labors in this
bihalfe xv. ducats of gold , som large , and som de camera .
ORIGIN1,102.015.248

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item that the said busshop said thes wordes unto hym ,
ORIGIN1,102.015.249

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" If we rid nott this Cardenall of the worlde , we shall never be in
quietnes . " ORIGIN1,102.015.250

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item he confesside ... oon Stephan , <P_103> secret chamberlan unto the
said busshop of Worcestr was ... herunto . ORIGIN1,103.015.251

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He saith he did by the said poson in a Citie namyd Sp ... nott verray
farr from Rome , and kepid itt a good space in his chambre under a
tyyll stoon . ORIGIN1,103.015.252

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All this his confession is writen in the proctor his booke by his own
hande in processu . ORIGIN1,103.015.253

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And sithen , the said Ranalde ... writen this his confession $in his
awne hande ORIGIN1,103.015.254

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and haith confesside the same unto my Lorde Cardenall de Medicis your
Graces protector , whom the Popis Holines <paren> aftire he was
informyd by the saide Juges herof </paren> sentt purposlye to knowe the
verray treuthe . ORIGIN1,103.015.255

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nott oonlie the said Ranalde haith thus confesside , and writen the
same of his own hande , butt also confermyd itt with oon grett oithe .
ORIGIN1,103.015.256

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He made this confession frelie , to thintentt itt shulde be shewide
immediatlie unto the Popes holines , supposing therby that his said
Holines shuld have grauntted hym hys lyve , ORIGIN1,103.015.257

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and desiride the same of my said Lorde de Medicis , who aunswerde that
he shuld have pardon of all thynges that he had confesside <paren>
whiche was thefte and mony oder enormyties </paren> save oonlie of
killing of my Lorde Cardinall . ORIGIN1,103.015.258

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Uppon the morow aftur , the said Ranalde , with a small knyff that he
had secrett , smott hym self , wolfully intending to have killed hym
self , ORIGIN1,103.015.259

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therof is in poontt of deithe as is supposide without recovery ;
ORIGIN1,103.015.260

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saith that he knowth perfitelie to be <P_104> perpetually for this
act dampnyd . ORIGIN1,104.015.261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My said felow writithe that the said busshop haith obteignyd suche
frendes by mean of his monye , that he trustith to ascaipe this
jeopardie of correction . And also that som your Grace 's lovers shewid
hym sith my departour from Rome that the Popis Holines wold gladlie
have the matier coloride upon the busshops partie speciallie , for that
service that the said busshop shulde have doon for his Holines in
procuring <paren> soo farr as in him was </paren> peax bitwixtt your
Grace and the Franshe King . ORIGIN1,104.015.262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Verralie I can nott bileve that his Holines ever intendide this ;
remembring soo strate examynacion as he haith causid to be made herein
, ORIGIN1,104.015.263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and from the begynnyng therof knew perfitelie that all suspicion herof
was oonlie ayanste the saide busshop . ORIGIN1,104.015.264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I trust verralie his Holines woll advertise your Grace right
shortlie uppon the hool processe maid in this bihalf ,
ORIGIN1,104.015.265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for in the begynning of this examynacion he saide that if itt war
possible he wolde " reddere rationem Sacrae Majestati vestrae super
interitu Cardinalis sui . " ORIGIN1,104.015.266

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By sids this , all the hooll College woll call for the correction herof
. ORIGIN1,104.015.267

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He writing to me also that now all Rome is full of the rumor of this
detestable act , the forsaid Stephan is taken and sett in the Castill .
ORIGIN1,104.015.268

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Som ther be that haith noside in Rome how that the poson shuld have
been sentt from England by som prelate thare , being enemye unto my
said late <P_105> Lorde , and procuride the same to be mynystrid unto
hym by his cooke . Wheruppon soundrie men hath inquyred the same
boith-6 of my said felo and me , wherunto we aunswerde that our master
had no suche enymyes in England , ne that Prelates of Englande and
English borne wer ever disposed unto ony suche actes .
ORIGIN1,105.015.269

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My said felow writithe that he is informyde by som , your Graces
frendes , that sithe the saide confession was shewide unto the Popes
Holines moche secret labor haith been made unto the same ; that the
foresaid Ranalde shulde revooke or excuse his said confession made
ayanste the saide bushop . ORIGIN1,105.015.270

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In his confession making ... desiride the Popis Holines instantlie to
regarde the said busshops ... and to have compassion uppon hym .
ORIGIN1,105.015.271

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Els he said that he muste nedes be undoon ; tho itt warr butt oonlie by
means of my Lorde Cardinall Hadrian . ORIGIN1,105.015.272

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In all haste possible , aftur that knowlege com unto me , I did depeche
this berar towards Your Grace for to advertise the same of the
premisses . ORIGIN1,105.015.273

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My said felow writithe no thyng what ordor is intendide for the
correction heroff . ORIGIN1,105.015.274

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have therfore writen unto hym that in ony wise he shall signifye unto
your Grace when and assoon as the saide ordor $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
determynyde . ORIGIN1,105.015.275

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In tyme of writing ... I was soore ceaside : as may somdeall be
percevide by the rude maner of the besechyng yo=r= Grace to have
patiens therin with me . ORIGIN1,105.015.276

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I shall duryng lyve humble bisiche our Lorde <P_106> Jhu~ for the
preservation of your Graces mosth hygh and roiall astate .
ORIGIN1,106.015.277

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Florence the xxviij=th=. day of Auguste M. D. xiiij .
ORIGIN1,106.015.278

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Grace 's moste lawlie , faithfull , and trewe subgett
ORIGIN1,106.015.279

{ED:THE_SIGNATURE_BURNT.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_015:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Kinge 's most noble Grace . ORIGIN1,106.015.280

<Q_OR1_A_1514_T_WBURBANK> <L_ORIGIN1_016> <A_WILLIAM_BURBANK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_106>

{ED:LETTER_WILLIAM_BURBANK'S_SECOND_LETTER_TO_KING_HENRY_VIII=TH
=.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleas itt your moste noble Grace , aftur that I hade closid my former
Lettre unto the same , I recevide from your faithfull servantt M.
Richard Pacie , my felow , in writing , how that the prest that posonyd
my lord and master was inducyd by his confessors , by mean of the
busshop of Worcestr , that he shuld instantly deny his confession .
ORIGIN1,106.016.281

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the said busshop laborid to have instrumenttes maide uppon the same
. ORIGIN1,106.016.282

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By inforsing of his said Confessors he denyde the space of two days ,
being all that tyme in poyntt of deith : ORIGIN1,106.016.283

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
butt ever he did banne and accurst the busshop of Worcestr , and the
tyme that ever he bigan to have famyliaritie or practice with hym .
ORIGIN1,106.016.284

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Aboutt the sext hour of the xxvj. day of this monthe the said prest
dyyde of his <P_107> own wilfull stroke . Albe itt iiij. or v. houres
affore he dyyd , he graunttid of new unto his surgion and phisician
that he posynyde my said lorde : ORIGIN1,107.016.285

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
butt he did not shew by whoos instance being so commandid by his
confessors . ORIGIN1,107.016.286

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Popis Holines haith promyttid that Justice shall be ministride in
this behalf ; and that all his confessions and processe maid ayanst the
said prest shall be kepid in suretie for your Grace to looke uppon att
your pleasor ; with also sundrie lettres of the said busshops which
<paren> as he saith </paren> be hool ayanst hym self .
ORIGIN1,107.016.287

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Their is no confession of the said Ranald taken thayr in effectt , save
oonlie his furst confession whiche remanyth in processe of the Juges .
ORIGIN1,107.016.288

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He saith also that my lord your Graces protector haith promyttid that
the said prests body $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} ower bruntt or quartride
. ORIGIN1,107.016.289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He saith that many gret men haith offerid them self to kill the said
busshop of Worcestr for this actt : and that all Rome be inflamyde
ayanste hym for the same , boith spirituall and temporall .
ORIGIN1,107.016.290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He writith also that he is secretlie informyde that the said busshop is
taken , ORIGIN1,107.016.291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Popis Holines having regarde that he is your Graces Orator ,
itt is thought he woll desiste of condigne correction doyng ayanste hym
, whils he shall perceve your pleasor in that bihalf .
ORIGIN1,107.016.292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus I shall besiche the blissid Trinitie for the preservacion of your
most highe and Roiall astate . ORIGIN1,107.016.293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From <P_108> Florence the xxviij. day of Auguste att nyght M. D. xiiij.
ORIGIN1,108.016.294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre moste humble trew and faithfull subjectt , William Burbanke .
ORIGIN1,108.016.295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BURBANK:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_016:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Kings most noble Grace . ORIGIN1,108.016.296

<Q_OR1_A_1514_FN_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_017> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1496> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_115>

{ED:LETTER_XXXIX._MARY_QUEEN_OF_FRANCE_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


<P_116>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good Brother as hertly as I can I recomaund me unto your Grace ,
mervelynge moch that I never herd form you syns ... re depertynge , so
often as I have sent and wrytten to you . ORIGIN1,116.017.297

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now am I left post a lone in effect ; ORIGIN1,116.017.298

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for on the morn next after ... e maryage my chambirlayn with all other
men servants wer dischargd and in lyke wyse my mother Guldeford with
other my women and maydyns , except such as never had experiens nor
knowlech how to advertyse or gyfe me counsell yn any tyme of nede ,
which is to be fered more schortly then your Grace thought at the tyme
of my depertynge , as my mother Guldeford can more playnly schew your
Grace then I cann wryt ; to whom I beseche you to gyve credens .
ORIGIN1,116.017.299

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf hit may be by eny meane possible , I humbly requyr you to cause
my seyd mother Guldeford to repayr hither <P_117> once agayn .
ORIGIN1,117.017.300

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For ells if any chauns happe other then weale I schall not knowe wher
nor of whom to aske any good counsell to your pleasur , nor yet to myn
own proffit . ORIGIN1,117.017.301

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I merveill moche that my Lord of Northfolke wold at all tymes so
lyghtly graunt every thynge at ther reqwests here . ORIGIN1,117.017.302

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am weale assured that when ze know the trouth of every thyng as my
mother Guldeford can schew you , ze wold full lyttyll have thowght I
schold have ben thus intreated : that wold God my Lord of Zorke had com
with me yn the rome of Northfolke : ORIGIN1,117.017.303

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for then am I sure I schuld have bene left moch more at my herti ...
then I am now . ORIGIN1,117.017.304

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus I byd your Grace fare weale with ... as ever had Prince ; and
more hertis ease then I have now . ORIGIN1,117.017.305

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
... Abvile the xij=th=. day of October . ORIGIN1,117.017.306

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
... gef gredens to my mowder Geldeford . ORIGIN1,117.017.307

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:18
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:23
LETTER:ORIGIN1_017:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your lowyng syster Mary Quene of France . ORIGIN1,117.017.308

<Q_OR1_A_1514_T_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_018> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1496> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_117>

{ED:LETTER_MARY_QUEEN_OF_FRANCE_TO_THOMAS_WOLSEY,_THEN_ARCHBISHOP_O
F_YORK.}

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
... I recomaund me un to you as hertly as I can , and as schoth ...
intreated as the kynge and you <P_118> thought I schuld have ben ,
ORIGIN1,118.018.309

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ... the morn next after the maryage , all my servants , both men
and women ... dyscharged . Insomoch that my mother Guldeford was also
dischargyd , whom as ze knowe the kynge and zou willed me in eny wyse
to be cowncelled . ORIGIN1,118.018.310

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But for eny thynge I myght do , yn no wyse myght I have any graunt for
her abode here , which I assure you my lord is moch to my discomffort ;
besyd meny other discomffortis that ze wold full lyttyll have thought .
ORIGIN1,118.018.311

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have not zet seen yn Fraunce eny lady or jentill woman so necessary
for me as sche ys nor zet so mete to do the kynge my brother service as
sche ys . ORIGIN1,118.018.312

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for my part my lord , as ze love the kynge my broder and me , fynd
the meanes that sche may yn all hast com hither agayn ,
ORIGIN1,118.018.313

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I had as lefe lose the wynnynge I schall have yn France as to lose
her counsell when I schall lacke it , which is not like long to be
required , as I am sure the nobill men and jentillmen can schew you
more then becometh me to wryte yn this matter . ORIGIN1,118.018.314

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you my Lord gyf credens forther to my moder Guldeford yn every
thyng concernynge thys matter . ORIGIN1,118.018.315

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And albehit my Lord of Northfollke h ... nethyr-1 deled best with me
nor zet with her at thys tyme : zet I pray you allwayes to be good lord
un to her . ORIGIN1,118.018.316

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wold to God my ... had ben so good to have had zou with me hither
when I ha ... rd of Northfolke . ORIGIN1,118.018.317

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus fare ze weale <P_119> My Lord . ORIGIN1,119.018.318

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryt ... ile the xij=the=. daye of Octobr . ORIGIN1,119.018.319

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord I pray you gyve credens to my ... ord yn my sorows
ORIGIN1,119.018.320

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
she have delyve ... ... Yowr on whyl I lefe Mary ...
ORIGIN1,119.018.321

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:18
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:41?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_018:E1:1514:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my lovynge frend Th'archebischop of Zorke . ORIGIN1,119.018.322

<Q_OR1_A_1515_T_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_019> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1496> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_119>

{ED:LETTER_XLI._MARY_QUEEN_OF_FRANCE_TO_WOLSEY.}


<P_120>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My nanne good Lord , I recomend me to yow ORIGIN1,120.019.323

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thankyng yow for yo=r= kynde and lovyng Letter , dyssyryng yow of
yo=r= good contenevans and good lessones that yow hathe gyffen to me ;
my lord , I pray yow as my trust ys in yow , for to remember me to the
Kyng my brother , for sowche causses and bessynes as I have for to do ;
ORIGIN1,120.019.324

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as now I have no nother to put my trust in but the Kyng my brother
and yow . ORIGIN1,120.019.325

<P_121>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as yt shall ples the Kyng my brother and hys Counsell I $will $be
{TEXT:wolbe} horderd . ORIGIN1,121.019.326

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so I pray yow , my lord , to show hys Grace , seyng that the Kyng
my howsbande ys departed to God , of whos sole God pardon .
ORIGIN1,121.019.327

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wher as yow a vyse me that I shulde macke no promas , My Lord , I
trust the Kyng my brother and yow wole nat reken in me sovche chyldhode
. ORIGIN1,121.019.328

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I trust I have so horderd my selffe so sens that I came hether , that I
trust yt hathe ben to the honar of the Kyng my brother and me , sen I
come hether , ORIGIN1,121.019.329

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I trust to contenaw . ORIGIN1,121.019.330

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yff ther be any thynge that I may do for yow I wold be glade for to do
yt in thys partes . ORIGIN1,121.019.331

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} glade to do yt for yow . ORIGIN1,121.019.332

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No more to you at thys tyme but Jh~s preserve yow . ORIGIN1,121.019.333

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretten at Pares the x. day of January 1515 . ORIGIN1,121.019.334

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By yowr lowyng frende Mary Quene of France . ORIGIN1,121.019.335

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:_:1496:19
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_019:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lorde of Yorke . ORIGIN1,121.019.336

<Q_OR1_A_1515_FN_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_020> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1496> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_121>

{ED:LETTER_XLII._MARY_THE_FRENCH_QUEEN_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_020:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most kynde and lovyng brother , I humbly reco~mand me vnto yowr
Grace , thankyng yow interly of yowr comfortable Letters ; besechyng
yowr grace <P_122> most humbly now so to contenwe toward me and my
frendes , as owr spessyale trowst ys yn yowr Grace ; and that yt may
layke you w=t= all convennynte {COM:GAP} to sende for me that I may
shortely se yowr grace wyche ys the thyng that I most dissyr yn thys
world ORIGIN1,122.020.337

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_020:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I and all myn ys at yowr gracs commandmente and playsayr .
ORIGIN1,122.020.338

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_020:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Parys the vj. day of Marche . ORIGIN1,122.020.339

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_020:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by yowr lowyng suster Mary . ORIGIN1,122.020.340

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_020:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To the Kings Grace thes be delivered . ORIGIN1,122.020.341

<Q_OR1_A_1515_FN_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_021> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1496> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_122>

{ED:LETTER_XLIII._MARY_QUEEN_OF_FRANCE_TO_KING_HENRY_VIII=TH=.}


<P_123>

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most derest and ryt entierly belowyde Lord ... brothare , yn my most
humble wys I recommande <P_124> me unto yowr Grace , shawynge unto yowr
Grace that I do a pa ... by my Lord my howsbande that y ... ar
playsayde and contentyde that he shale resorde on to yowr presence at
swche tyme as yowr Grace shale be at hys maner of Donyngton , wherby I
se wele he hys merwosly rejoysyd and moche comfortyd that yt hathe
lyked your Grace so to be playsayd ; for the wyche yowr specyale
goodnys to hym showyd yn that be halfe , and for sondry and many oder
yowr kyndnes , as wele to me as to hym showed and gewyn yn dyvers
cawsys , I most humbly thanke yowr Grace ; assewryng yow that for the
same I accompt my selfe as moche bonden un to yowr Grace as ewer swster
was to brother : ORIGIN1,124.021.342

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and accordyng ther un to I shale to the beste of my powr dowryng my
lyef , endver myselfe as ferre as in me shale be possyble to do the
thyng that shale stond with yowr playsowr , ORIGIN1,124.021.343

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf it had be tyme convenyente to yowr Grace hade be ther wythe
pleassyd I wolde most gladly have accompanyd my sayd Lord yn thys
yowrnay . ORIGIN1,124.021.344

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Bwt I trowst that bowthe I and my sayd Lord shal se yow acordyng as
yowr Grace worte yn yowr laste Letters unto my sayde Lord , whyc ys the
thyng that I dessyr more to opteyn than all the honor off the Worlde .
ORIGIN1,124.021.345

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thws I beseche owre Lorde to send unto yow , my most dereste and
enterly be lowyd brother and Lord , long and prosperows <P_125> lyfe
with the fole accomplyshment of al yowr honorable dessyrs , most humbly
prayeng yowr Grace that I may be humbly recomanded unto my most derest
and beste be lowyd suster the Quene Grace , and to the Quene off
Scottys my welbelowyd suster , trowstyng that she be asserteyned frome
yowr Grace of the prosperows estate and helthe of my everly beloved ny
... the prences , to home I pray God send long lyfe .
ORIGIN1,125.021.346

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:19
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:24
LETTER:ORIGIN1_021:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Frome Letheryng in Swf the ix. day off Septembur , by the hand of yowr
lowyng suster Mary Quene off France . ORIGIN1,125.021.347

<Q_OR1_A_1516?_T_HENRY8> <L_ORIGIN1_022> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_125>

{ED:LETTER_XLIV._KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


<P_126>

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord Cardinall I recommand vnto yow as hartely as I can ,
ORIGIN1,126.022.348

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I amme ryght glade to here of your good helthe , whyche I pray god
may long contynv . ORIGIN1,126.022.349

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So it is that I have resavyd your letters , to the whyche <paren> by
cause they aske long wrytyng </paren> I have made answar by my
Secretary . ORIGIN1,126.022.350

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tow thyyngs ther be whyche be so secrete that they cause me at thys
tyme to wrytte to yow myselfe ; ORIGIN1,126.022.351

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the won is that I trust the quene my wyffe be with chylde ;
ORIGIN1,126.022.352

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the other is chefe cause why I am soo lothe to repayre to London ward ,
by cause aboght thys tyme is partly off her dangerus tymes and by cause
off that I wolde remeve har as lyttyll as I may now .
ORIGIN1,126.022.353

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord I wrytt thys vnto $you nott as a ensuryd thyng but as a thyng
wherin I have grette hoppe and lyklyodes ; ORIGIN1,126.022.354

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by cause I do well know that thys thyng wyll be comfortabyll to yow
to understand : therfor I do wrytt itt unto yow at thys tyme .
ORIGIN1,126.022.355

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No more to yow att thys tyme , nisi quod Deus velit inceptum opus bene
finiri . ORIGIN1,126.022.356

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_022:E1:1516?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyn with the hand off your lovyng Prynce Henry R.
ORIGIN1,126.022.357

<Q_OR1_A_1515_T_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_023> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1489> <R_THOMAS_DACRE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_127>

{ED:LETTER_XLV._MARGARET_QUEEN_OF_SCOTLAND_TO_LORD_DACRE.}


AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde Dakers I comend me to zou as hartely as I can ,
ORIGIN1,127.023.358

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have seen zour vryteng ORIGIN1,127.023.359

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ondarstande at length , ORIGIN1,127.023.360

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I parcayve that ze ar nouht sykerly informyd in what stat I stand
in , ORIGIN1,127.023.361

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ze trow yat I may pas vhar ever I vyl vyshe , ORIGIN1,127.023.362

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
is nowht trw ; ORIGIN1,127.023.363

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yes berrar can schow zou ye trowht of all , and vhat my mynd is ,
and how I am constraynd to doo a gan my vyl . ORIGIN1,127.023.364

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I pray zou gyf hm kredens as ze valde doo to my selfe ,
ORIGIN1,127.023.365

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is owr lang to vryt , ORIGIN1,127.023.366

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I have gret trast in yes man . ORIGIN1,127.023.367

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And send me zour uter mynd and ansuer in all thyng :
ORIGIN1,127.023.368

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God kype zou . ORIGIN1,127.023.369

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vryten vy=t= my hand yes Monday . ORIGIN1,127.023.370

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_023:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Zour frend Margaret R. ORIGIN1,127.023.371

<Q_OR1_A_1515_T_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_024> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1489> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_128>

{ED:LETTER_XLVI._MARGARET_QUEEN_OF_SCOTLAND_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde Cardnal I comand me hartly to zou , ORIGIN1,128.024.372

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I am glad to here that ze doo vell , ORIGIN1,128.024.373

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I have ressauet a letter from you and a nother from my lorde Dakers
vher of I beleffe you know the effeyt . ORIGIN1,128.024.374

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ze vryte to me that sych parssons as he sent for my maters in to
Scotland trust to be vell ansuerd , and hath sent to me sysch vrytengs
as thay sent to hym . ORIGIN1,128.024.375

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But my lorde I am gladar of the tydengs that the Kyngs grace teld me of
the Duk of Albane , that he vyl com hyther , vysche I besech God may be
trw , ORIGIN1,128.024.376

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I dred it be not . ORIGIN1,128.024.377

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde I thynke ryght longe vyhil I speke vyth you ,
ORIGIN1,128.024.378

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for next the Kyngs grace my most trust is in you , ORIGIN1,128.024.379

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and you may doo me moste good of any , ORIGIN1,128.024.380

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I pray you my lorde as soon as any body comes out of Scotland that
you vyl send me vorde , ORIGIN1,128.024.381

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I thynke long tyl I here tydengs . ORIGIN1,128.024.382

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No more : ORIGIN1,128.024.383

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but God have zou in hys kypeng ORIGIN1,128.024.384

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:26
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:42?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_024:E1:1515:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Zour frend Margaret R. ORIGIN1,128.024.385

<Q_OR1_A_1516_FN_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_025> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1489> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_129>

{ED:LETTER_MARGARET_QUEEN_OF_SCOTLAND_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_VIII=TH=
.}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Derest broder as hartly as I can I recomend me onto you ,
ORIGIN1,129.025.386

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and let you vyt that yesternyght I cam hyther , soo beyng confortted of
you in my jornay in many and soondry wyses that , lovyng be to our
Lorde God , I am in ryght good heal , and as joyous of my sayd Jornay
towarde you as ony woman may be in commyng to her broder , as I have
gret cause , and am moost desirous now to com to your presens and to
have sight of your person , in whom next God , is myn oonly trust and
confydens : advertissing you derest brotder I have reseved thys day a
Letter from my soons ambassadors , now at London , which Leter I send
on to you heryinne closed , ORIGIN1,129.025.387

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have adressed on to them myn ansuer severally in twoe sondery
lettres , copy wher of I all so sende on to you , that apon notice had
of the same it may lyke you to comand whether of the said letters ye
seme besst at your plessur shall be delyverd . ORIGIN1,129.025.388

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Holy Trenyte have you my most derest broder in tuycion and
governance . ORIGIN1,129.025.389

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Stony Stretford the xxvij. day of Apryll . ORIGIN1,129.025.390

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Zour loveng suster Margaret . ORIGIN1,129.025.391

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:SISTER:1489:27
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:25
LETTER:ORIGIN1_025:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Unto my dereste broder the King 's Grace . ORIGIN1,129.025.392

<Q_OR1_A_1516_T_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_026> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1489> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_130>

{ED:LETTER_XLVIII._QUEEN_MARGARET_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde Cardinal I comand me to you , ORIGIN1,130.026.393

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I vould fayne have spokyn vyth you ORIGIN1,130.026.394

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ye var gon or I coud cam to you ORIGIN1,130.026.395

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor I most vryt to you my mynde . ORIGIN1,130.026.396

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde I beseche you to schw your gud mynd to me , as ye have doon
ever , but specyaly now , ORIGIN1,130.026.397

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now ys the tyme . ORIGIN1,130.026.398

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Me Lorde I pray you hartly to get me som monne aganst ... yr day
ORIGIN1,130.026.399

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ye knaw vell I moust gyf part of rewards and other nedful thyngs
both-2 for the kyng my brothers honour and myne : ORIGIN1,130.026.400

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I schal not put you in no more troubul ORIGIN1,130.026.401

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I be sysch you hartly my Lorde that I may have it to morow at nyght
at the farest : ORIGIN1,130.026.402

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ells I vyl be dysapointtyd . ORIGIN1,130.026.403

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But I put my hooll trust in you , ORIGIN1,130.026.404

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys berar schal wayt apon you for your ansuer as our Lord knouth
wham kype you ORIGIN1,130.026.405

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Margaret R. ORIGIN1,130.026.406

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_026:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On To my Lorde Kardenall . ORIGIN1,130.026.407

<Q_OR1_A_1516_T_MTTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_027> <A_MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1489> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_130>

{ED:LETTER_XLIX._QUEEN_MARGARET_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde Cardnal I comand me to you as hartly as I can
ORIGIN1,130.027.408

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and vyt ze my lorde that I have spokyn vy=t= <P_131> James Aborrow and
he hath schwn to me that ze and the lordys of Cownsel vould not that I
schuld cam to Bayners castel to day . ORIGIN1,131.027.409

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde I wyl doo as ze thynke best ORIGIN1,131.027.410

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I pray you my Lorde as hartly as I can gyf ther be no trubyl to day
to lat me com to morow . ORIGIN1,131.027.411

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I trust to God the schal be noo lych trobyl but that I may cam to morow
ORIGIN1,131.027.412

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for and it be vell thys nyght I trust to god the varst be past .
ORIGIN1,131.027.413

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my Lorde I have I part of thyngs to doo that I most nedes have doon
that vyll be nedfol to me . ORIGIN1,131.027.414

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray my lorde to lat me have your aunsuer vyth thes berar
ORIGIN1,131.027.415

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God have you in hys kypeng . ORIGIN1,131.027.416

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours Margaret R. ORIGIN1,131.027.417

AUTHOR:MARGARET_STUART[N.TUDOR]:FEMALE:_:1489:27
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:43?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_027:E1:1516:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lorde Cardnal . ORIGIN1,131.027.418

<Q_OR1_A_1517_T_CTUNSTALL> <L_ORIGIN1_028> <A_CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1474> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_134>

{ED:LETTER_LI._DR._CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plese it your Grace to undirstond that besids al other maters contenyd
in our Lettres jointly written at thys tyme to your Grace , oon is in
them untowchyd by cause I wold not make my clerke privey to the
secretie theroff , which yff I shold not to longe have taried the last
curror save thys , I shold then have written . ORIGIN1,134.028.419

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But by cause then we wer sent for to come to th'emperor commissionars ,
and our Lettres wer redy written contenyng a longe discurse and
declaration off many mattres shewyd by the Cardinal Sedunensis which
was necessary your Grace shold know in al haste , we therfor not
knowinge how long th'emperors commissioners shuld lete us , dispached
that poste , reservyng thys to <P_135> be written by my selff at laysor
which then I had not . ORIGIN1,135.028.420

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The thinge is this . ORIGIN1,135.028.421

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The said Cardinal Sedunens . in makinge his long discurse hertofor by
us written , emongest other things shewyd me that oon off the secrete
mater stretyd betuyx th'emperor and your Grace was that th'emperor
entendeth to resigne the Empire unto your Grace , and to obten your
Election by hys procurement and sollicitinge off the Electors therunto
, which th'mperor entendyd to do for the avancement of your honor and
the love which he berith you . Which mater when I herd I lete as I
nothynge had marked it , and lete hym passe on in tellynge off his tale
which endyd in thys , that thys thynge shold be oon off the secrete
maters treatid by hym betwix th'Emperor and your Grace .
ORIGIN1,135.028.422

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sire besids that I am your Graces subject and servant , and sworn off
your counsel thoff unworthi , your Grace hath also shewyd so largely
your bounteousnes and liberalite anenst me that I ougth mo to desire
the incresement and augmentation off your Graces honor then any
servaunt to your Grace belonginge . Which I assure your Grace I doo
tendre as moch to my symple powar as any subjiet in your realme or
ellys it wer pitie I shuld lyve . ORIGIN1,135.028.423

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And lykwyse yff $ther $be {TEXT:therbe} any thynge soundinge to your
Grace 's damage or hynderaunce iff I shold concele it ; ther coud no
pain be to great for me . Wherfor I most humbly besech your Grace to
accepte graciously and favorably the <P_136> thinge which now I write
both for the ardent love which I bere unto your Grace , and for the
accomplishment off my dutie . ORIGIN1,136.028.424

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Surly yff it lyke your Grace I thinke the said Election off your Grace
to th'empire $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be brogth aboute by no means , for
diverse considerations . ORIGIN1,136.028.425

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fyrste that lyke as in the Election off the Pope a certain forme is to
be kept which not observed makith the Election to be voyd , so off
auncient tyme and ordinaunce off the universale churche a certain forme
must be observyd in chesinge off th'emperor , which ometted , the
Election is voyde . ORIGIN1,136.028.426

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Oon of the cheffe points in the Election off th'emperor is that he
which shal be electyd must be off Germanie subgiet to $the Empire ;
wheras your Grace is not , ORIGIN1,136.028.427

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor never sithen the Cristen faith the Kings of Englond wer subgiet to
th'empire . ORIGIN1,136.028.428

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the Crown of Englond is an Empire off hitselff mych bettyr then now
the Empire of Rome : for which cause your Grace werith a close Crown .
ORIGIN1,136.028.429

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfor yff ye wer chosen , sens your Grace is not off th'empire
the Election wer voide . ORIGIN1,136.028.430

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And iff your Grace shuld accepte the said Election therby ye must
confesse your realme to be under subjection off th'empire to the
perpetual prejudice off your successor , ORIGIN1,136.028.431

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or ells the said Election wer voyde as made off a person not eligible .
ORIGIN1,136.028.432

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Besids that the forme off the Election contenyth that the first he must
be Kinge of Romains and the coronation at Rome makith hym have the name
off the Emperor , wher befor he is callyd but <P_137> Kinge off Romains
. ORIGIN1,137.028.433

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Over thys yff th'emperor which nou is remain stil Kyng off Romains as I
understond he entendeth to doo , then yff your Grace wer eligible and
undir th'empire , yet ye coud not be chosen Emperor , by cause ye were
never Kinge of Romains . ORIGIN1,137.028.434

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also he remanyng ye could not be chosen Kynge off Romains , bycause
the Kingdome is not voyde , ORIGIN1,137.028.435

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and noon can be chosen therto but when it is voyd edyr by dethe or
ellys when the Kinge off Romains is crownyd Emperor , wherby undir hym
may be chosen a Kinge off Romains . ORIGIN1,137.028.436

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The said Empire also <paren> as it is now establyshed </paren> may not
have two Emperors at oon tyme , but oon as cheff , and the odyr as here
apparaunt , which is callyd the Kinge off Romains , wher he must begyn
that wyl come to th'empire . For which considerations I repute it
impossible <paren> the laws theron made stondinge </paren> that your
Grace may be chosen . ORIGIN1,137.028.437

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I am afferd lest the said offer beinge so speciouse at the first
heringe was oonly made to get therby sum money of your Grace : Which
they move to have kepte secret lest the publyshynge off it shuld make
their intent to be knowen , and frustrate them off thir purpose befor
they coud acheve it . ORIGIN1,137.028.438

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Surly yff it lyke your Grace my simple advise is that your Grace
interpretinge al to the beste , and the said offer to be made rather
off th'emperors good mynd and grete benivolence then for odyr purpose ,
yff the mater shal herafter be set forward or <P_138> movyd to gyff
most exquisite thanks to th'emperor for his good mynd therin : which
peraventure may procede off good benivolence , and so to withdraw your
fote bake out off that mater , and to make good interpretation opon so
grete an offer , which shal be most honorable . ORIGIN1,138.028.439

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus in thys mater I have shewed my simple advise and mynd ; which , I
thougth , my dutie savyd , I could not kepe close from your Grace ,
wherin I trust such as be lernyd in the law far bettyr then I wil
afferme the same if it lyke your Grace to make them privey to it .
ORIGIN1,138.028.440

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And iff I doo erre , as I suppose I do not , I submitte to reformation
besechinge your Grace graciously to accepte my trew mynde and rygth
meanyng in thys mater , which I have touchyd for my discharge lest
heraffter it mygth be imputyd to me not to have shewyd it in tyme when
it came first to my knowlege . ORIGIN1,138.028.441

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In al other maters at thys tyme we have written at large how her we
find not al persons inclyned $as {TEXT:at} it was thougth they shold be
. ORIGIN1,138.028.442

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus Almyghty Jhu~ preserve your Grace to his plesur with encrese
off mych honor . ORIGIN1,138.028.443

AUTHOR:CUTHBERT_TUNSTALL:MALE:_:1474:43
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:26
LETTER:ORIGIN1_028:E1:1517:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Machlyn the xij=th=. day of Februarie By your most humble subjecte
and servaunt Cuthbert Tunstal . ORIGIN1,138.028.444

<Q_OR1_A_1519_T_RWINGFIELD> <L_ORIGIN1_029> <A_RICHARD_WINGFIELD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1469?> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_139>

{ED:LETTER_LII._SIR_RICHARD_WINGFIELD_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please yt your Highnesse to understand that the xiiij=th=. day of this
Month I wrote to your Grace my last Lettres , ORIGIN1,139.029.445

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as yesterday , at afternone the Great Master came from Saynt
Germains there as the King lieth , hither to this Town ,
ORIGIN1,139.029.446

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as soon as I hard that he was come I went to him to his lodging
where I found with him the Chaunceller , the bishop of Paris , Robertet
, and Vyl Roy , wher he toold me that he had commoned with the King his
Master of the Meeting and Entreview that shuld be betwixt your
Highnesse and hym , and made me to sytt down with them and sayd I shuld
have aunswer to every Article of myn Instructions <P_140> concernyng
the said Entreview and Meeteng . ORIGIN1,140.029.447

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And first told me that as to the tyme of the meting the King here is
content , and thinketh it convenient to be in the myddest of the moneth
of July , as your Grace hath devysed . ORIGIN1,140.029.448

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as to the place of the first meting which they think necessarye is
to be in a place neutrall , which place I have rehersed to them
ORIGIN1,140.029.449

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hath been viewed by th'Erle of Worcester and the Captayn of Bolayn ,
ORIGIN1,140.029.450

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he sayth the King here is content with that if better can nat be founde
. ORIGIN1,140.029.451

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeit the Great Master sayeth that if it pleased your Highnesse to be
lodged at Guysnes , and the King here to be lodged at Arde which is but
a league asonder he thinketh it most convenyent . ORIGIN1,140.029.452

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Orels if good serch were made by some oon of Calais such as it would
please your Highnesse t'appoint , and the King here t'appoint another ,
there mought be found , upon the borders there , more convenyent place
than that , seing that there is noo houses nor village nere it .
ORIGIN1,140.029.453

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as to the next article of myn Instructions , which is that both
your Highnesse and the King here , the Queens , and all the nobles
shuld mete on horsebacke , and after th'imbracyng of eche other
familiarly they shuld repaire streyt to Calais ; ORIGIN1,140.029.454

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as to the meting and embrasyng one an other a horsback without
discendyng , he sayth the King here thinketh it very good , and is
content therewith , whersomever the Meting shal be ;
ORIGIN1,140.029.455

<P_141>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to repaire strayt from thens to Calais and specially at the first
tyme , he sayeth the King his Master will not consent therto , and
thinketh it were not convenient , ORIGIN1,141.029.456

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but sayth it were better that your Highnesse were lodged in somme
village within the Englysh pale if any may be found there according ,
and if nat in your tents and pavyllions , seeing that it is in summer ,
and he to doo so likewise for his part within his ground uppon his ...
whither ich of you might repaire to other after your first $meting at
your plesures : ORIGIN1,141.029.457

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayth that after the first day of meting ... of good congruence
must nedes be in a place neutrall both for your honnors and in
contentation of your Pepull , ORIGIN1,141.029.458

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the next day after the King and the Quene here shal be content to come
and vysyte your Highnesse and the Quenes Grace wheresomever your
lodging be , so that it be without Calais . ORIGIN1,141.029.459

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And to induce them that the King Highness might come to Calais I have
shewed them all the considerations which bee recyted at lenght in myn
Instructions : shewing them $that without his comming to Calais as in
my said Instruccyons moch of the honnor of the said Meting shal be lost
: and that it $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee soo honorably doon as it
shuld be if it pleased hym to come to Calais . ORIGIN1,141.029.460

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also for their further contentation and to meve them to come to Calais
without stoppe or difficultie I have shewed them as is in
th'instruccions : that inasmoch as your Grace shall not <P_142> oonly
... and take a right great journey before you come to the See , but
also must passe the See which is painfull , laborous , and duangerous :
and after so long passage to mete with the Kinge $here at a place syted
in the confynes of his own Realme having his hoole power at his backe ,
where as your Highnesse commyth with a small companye , your puissaunce
being seperate from you by the mayn See , who so ever shall see or
considre thesame must judge that by your said comming over the See to
hym and $meting first in the place newtrall , by reason whereof your
Highnesse commytteth your noble personne to the trust , confidence ,
and a ... of the King here . In consideration whereof if the King here
$come $to Calais at youre Graces desire , the honnor and the
preemynence $shall $be his as of reason it ought so to be .
ORIGIN1,142.029.461

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as your Grace is the ... aggre`able accordingly , and for an equall
corespondent I have $told the great Master that your Highnesse woll not
stycke to $visit $him here in his town of Bolayne if your Grace be
therunto $required . Whereunto they made me aunswer in making as great
$dyfficulty $that your Grace shuld come to Bolayn as they doo that the
King here shuld come to Calais , sayeng that by reason of the deth that
has been there and is there yet , and also that the Towne $is so ...
lykening it to a Dove hows , with many other <P_143> excuses so that I
perceyve well it is not their mynd to have your Highnesse to Bolayn
sayeng that the King here woll nat comme there hymself .
ORIGIN1,143.029.462

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also the great Master , the Chaunceler , and the bisshop of Parys saye
that if your Highnesse and the King here shuld bee both lodged owther
in Calais or in Bolayn with both your traynes , which is at the lest a
vj. thousand persones besides them of the Towne where myght by the
reason of a varlett , or a page , or by a casueltye of fyer come any
occasion of debate , or whereby myght ryse any alarm , it mought be to
th'inquietness , disturbaunce , and daunger of you both . In example
whereof the bisshop of Parys rehersed of a great fraye of fyer that was
at Cambray at the great meeting there , which he sayth my lord of
Norfolk can well tell of . ORIGIN1,143.029.463

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also the great Master consideryth that in July the time of the meeting
shal be the hottest season of all the year , and whan folks drynk most
, ORIGIN1,143.029.464

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thinketh that amongs such a multitude of pepull some dronken
personne myght cause inconvenience . In eschewing whereof the great
Master , the Chancellor , and the bishop of Parys be in the mind that
nother the King here shuld come to Calais , nor your Grace should not
come to Bolayn to lodge there . ORIGIN1,143.029.465

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it , the great Master sayth that he thinketh verrily that if
your Highnesse lye at Calais that the King his Master woll come , with
a certain with him , and see your Grace in Calais in maskyr ,
ORIGIN1,143.029.466

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saith that after your <P_144> Grace and the King here have seen
oones togyther he puttyth no doubte but that ye shall mete oftyn by
your owne accorde . ORIGIN1,144.029.467

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also they thinke it good and convenient that when it shall fortune your
Highnesse and the Queen 's grace with your trayne to be uppon his
ground and in his domynion , that your Grace , the Queens Grace , and
your trayn shall have the sovereignty , honnor , and the right hand ,
as they think that your pleasure $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to give the
King here and his trayn the same , whan they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
in your grounde and in your domynyon . ORIGIN1,144.029.468

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as to the nombre that shall come with your Grace to the meting that
is comprised in a Rolle ; wherof they have the copye ;
ORIGIN1,144.029.469

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they think it very good , ORIGIN1,144.029.470

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and woll order the Kings nombre here according to the same .
ORIGIN1,144.029.471

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also as to an Article in the said Instructions concerning the ...
of Apparell of every astate and personne , they think it ... like it
very well , ORIGIN1,144.029.472

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and say that they woll drawe a booke of $the $same .
ORIGIN1,144.029.473

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howe be it the great Master tellyth me that for all the Princes of the
Sangue Ryall , which be Mess=rs= Delaunson , de Burbon , de Vandosme ,
de Seynt Poll , de la Rosche Furyon , and the chief Officers , as the
Constable , the iij. Mareschalls , the great Master , th'Admirall ,
with divers other , can in no wise bee comprised in any $Rolle for
Array ; ORIGIN1,144.029.474

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they to were at their pleasure . ORIGIN1,144.029.475

<P_145>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This aunswer at ... this time , ORIGIN1,145.029.476

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as touching your Meting and Enterview I have of the Great Master ,
which he hath promysed me with his furthur devise he woll delyver me in
writing this day or to morrow . ORIGIN1,145.029.477

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He toold me also that he was specially charged by the King his Master ,
that he shuld speke to me to wryte to your Highnesse with diligence
that when he sayth it was agreed betwixt your Highnesse and the King
here that what tyme it shuld please God to send the Queens Grace a
Prince or a Princesse , that the King here shuld be godfather to the
Prince , or the Quene here to be godmother if it were a Princesse , and
to bere the name after them . ORIGIN1,145.029.478

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Soo the King here desireth your Highnesse at this tyme that if the
Queen here shall have a sonne that it wold please your Grace to be
godfather , and that it may be named after your Highnesse $Harry , $and
if it be a doughter that it may be named after the Quene Kateryn ;
whereof he prayed me to wryte to your Grace and ... that the King here
shuld wryte to his ambassador in $England of the same .
ORIGIN1,145.029.479

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also he tellyth me that the Quene is at Sain ... and is mery for a
woman being in her case so nere her $time and loketh every day to be
delivered before th'ende of this $month of March . ORIGIN1,145.029.480

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as to th'aunswer that I have for the ... of the Marchaunts I wryte
at this time more at length $to my Lord Legat and Cardinall of England
. ORIGIN1,145.029.481

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Beseching <P_146> ... Trinite long to preserve your Highnesse .
ORIGIN1,146.029.482

AUTHOR:RICHARD_WINGFIELD:MALE:_:1469?:50?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_029:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Parys this xvj=th=. day of March . ORIGIN1,146.029.483

<Q_OR1_A_1519_T_TBOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN1_030> <A_THOMAS_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1477> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_146>

{ED:LETTER_LIII._SIR_THOMAS_BOLEYN_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


<P_147>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasyth it your Highnesse to understand that yesterday I delyvered
your lettre to the Kyng here with as harty and affectuous
recommendacions from your Grace as I cowlde devise .
ORIGIN1,147.030.484

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after he had at lenght and with good laysure read over your said
lettre , I declared to hym for my credence , according to <P_148> the
Instructions which your Grace late sent me . First the effecte of your
said Lettre . ORIGIN1,148.030.485

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after I shewed hym how great desire your Grace hath for the
increase of his honnor , and what pleasure and consolation your Highnes
taketh in the same , consideryng the unfeyned amytie and aliance that
is established betwixt you , both which your Grace belevith to bee soo
rooted in your hartys that what high honnor or advauncement shall
fortune to come to hym , the fructe thereof shuld redonde to your
Highnesse , wherfore to advaunce hym to the preferment of this
Imperiall dignitie , your Grace , uppon knowledge of his further intent
and mynd $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} glad to employe your self as well by
worde and writing as by acts and dedes to the best of your power ,
wheruppon he may assuredly trust . Wherunto , he , taking of his bonett
thanked hartely your Highnesse , and sayd that the great love and
favour which he well perceyveth that your Grace beryth towardes him is
the greatest comfort that he hath upon erth . ORIGIN1,148.030.486

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for the great honnor that your Grace shewith to hym in advauncyng
hym to th'imperiall dignitie which is his most desire , he sayth he
knoweth nat how nor by what meanes he may recompence your Highnesse in
doing any thing so moch for your Grace , ORIGIN1,148.030.487

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he sayeth as long as he lyveth , in any thing that he may doo that
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to your pleasure , he shall always bee as redy
and as glad to doo yt as he wold be to doo for hymself , and desireth
<P_149> no thyng moore than to have knowledge wherein he might employe
hymself to doo your Highnesse some pleasure . ORIGIN1,149.030.488

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Rehersyng to me that by the reason of the perfecte love and aliaunce
betwixt you both he rekeneth your Highnesse to bee of great mygth and
power , sayeng that what with your owne puissance and with his help ,
which he sayeth your Grace shall alwayes have redy at your
commaundement , there is nother honnor , dignytie , nor other thing in
Crystendome but that your Highnesse shall y ... and ordre yt at your
own pleasure , and tolde me that he cowlde not expresse to me with his
tonge the due thanks that he $thinketh to your Grace in his hart for
the loving kindnesse that he fyndeth in your Highnesse :
ORIGIN1,149.030.489

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayd that , whan ye both mete , which he trusteth $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} shortly , your Grace shall knowe his hart , no man lyving
soner . Wherunto I sayd that your Highnesse thanked hym , specially
consideryng that amongs all his other things and great affaires , he is
so moch desirous to mete , visite , and see your Grace ;
ORIGIN1,149.030.490

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toolde hym of your conformable mynd therunto , shewing to hym the
tyme , place , fourme , and maner as is at lenght expressed in
th'instructions that I have . Wherunto he sayed that he is determyned
to see your Grace though he shuld come but hymself , his page , and his
lakaye : and that noo buysenesse shall lette yt : ORIGIN1,149.030.491

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
how be it , for the tyme , place , and order of <P_150> the Meeting he
said he wold common with the Great Master , and within ij. or iij.
dayes he wold send hym to Parys , wher he shuld make me aunswer of
every article concernyng the said Entreview and Meting .
ORIGIN1,150.030.492

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And bicause that the Quene here hath been very sycke thies ij. dayes ,
and in great daunger , as I have more at large wryten of the same to my
lord Legat and Cardinall of England , which I am sure woll shewe your
Grace thereof , I can as yet have no aunswer what order $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} taken for the Marchaunts matiers . ORIGIN1,150.030.493

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Beseching the holy Trynyte long to preserve your Highnesse .
ORIGIN1,150.030.494

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28
LETTER:ORIGIN1_030:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Parys this xiiij=th=. day of March . ORIGIN1,150.030.495

{ED:THE_SIGNATURE_BURNT_OFF.}

<Q_OR1_A_1519_T_TBOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN1_031> <A_THOMAS_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1477> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_150>

{ED:LETTER_LIV._SIR_THOMAS_BOLEYN_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Pleasyth $it $youre Grace to understand that the xxj=th=. day of this
moneth I wrote my last Lettres to your Grace , and as yesterday , which
was our Lady 's day , I was at Seynt Germayns , where the Quene and my
Lady lyeth ; ORIGIN1,150.031.496

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the King roode on our Ladye 's even viij. leges hens ,
ORIGIN1,150.031.497

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as my Lady tellyth me it is in a dowte whether he comyth ageyn
before the <P_151> Quene here be brought in bedde or nay ;
ORIGIN1,151.031.498

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she lookyth her tyme every howre . ORIGIN1,151.031.499

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also my Lady hath commaunded me , now while the great Master is away ,
that I shuld resorte to her for any thing that I shuld have to doo for
the King my Master . ORIGIN1,151.031.500

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And she hath promysed me that she woll make me pryve of such newes as
she shall here of from any place : ORIGIN1,151.031.501

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toold me that the King her sonne whan he departed willed her to
shew me a Lettre that came now streyt out of Spayn from his Ambassadour
there , ORIGIN1,151.031.502

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therewithall she called to her the tresourer Robertet
ORIGIN1,151.031.503

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bad hym shewe me that Lettre , wherein was wrytten by the said
Ambassador whose name is de la Roche Beauconot , that the King 's
Highnesse had late sent a Lettre to the King Catholique advertysyng hym
how the King here had desired the King 's Highnesse by his lettres to
wryte to th'Ellectowrs of th'Empire in his favour , the rather to
atteyn the dygnyte of th'Empire ; the which the King 's Highness hath
refused bicause of the Amytie betwixt the Kings Grace and the King
Catholique , and how the Kings Highnesse had rather that the King
Catholique wer Emperowr than the King here ; ORIGIN1,151.031.504

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
which Lettre he wryteth is in th'andes of the Bishop of Bourges oon of
the great Counsell of Spayn . ORIGIN1,151.031.505

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whan I had redde this clawse in the Lettre sent out of Spayn , I prayed
my Lady that she wold gyve noo credence to yt , ORIGIN1,151.031.506

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shewed <P_152> her how I thought that the said Ambassador wrote
this by Informacion of some maliciouse personne that wold sett discord
bitwixt Princes ; and that I assured her it was not trew .
ORIGIN1,152.031.507

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She toold me that she had soo perfecte trust in the Kyng my Master 's
honnor that she beleved , nor wold beleve , noo such thing ;
ORIGIN1,152.031.508

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and no more she sayeth woll the King her sonne : sayeng that whan the
King here redde the same clause in the Lettre wrytten to hym by his
Ambassadour in Spayn he did but lawgh at it , and gave no credence
thereto . ORIGIN1,152.031.509

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And she saied it cowlde nat be trew , ORIGIN1,152.031.510

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the ... the Kyng 's Highnesse desyring him to wryte to th ...
th'Empire for hym . So that as farre as I can perceyve neyther my Lady
nor the King her sonne gyve noo credence to yt . ORIGIN1,152.031.511

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as moch as I cowld instaunce her I have desired her not to beleve
this nor noo such thing that shuld be contrary to any thing that the
Kings Highnesse hath promysed or wrytten to the King her sonne .
ORIGIN1,152.031.512

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lady also desireth that likewise as I woll make me pryve of every
thing that shall touch or arr ... to the Kings Grace to th'intent I
shuld advertise the Kings Highnesse and your Grace . She likewise
desireth to bee advertised of any thing apperteynyng to the King her
sonne . ORIGIN1,152.031.513

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She talked with me also of the Meeting of the Kings Highnesse and the
King her sonne <paren> which she moch desireth </paren> wherein I
shewed her according to myn Instructions <P_153> that if it pleased her
to m ... the King her sonne that he wold be content after they had mett
a horsbak to repaire streyt to Calais where they myght be honourably
receyved , well and easely lodged , it shuld be convenient for their
estates . Whereto she aunswered that when they had oones mett , she
putt noo dowtes but they shuld ... well enough , sayeng that after they
had ones seen togyther his Highnesse shuld desire hym to nothing but he
wold gyve thereto assent . ORIGIN1,153.031.514

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She sayeng allwaies that it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} more ... and
triumphant to be lodged in sommer in the fields in tents and pavilions
than it shuld be in any Towne . ORIGIN1,153.031.515

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She often $asked me of my Lady Princesse and of hir helth , if she hath
been syck lately or not . ORIGIN1,153.031.516

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also Madame la Duchesse the Kings syster , the Duke of Alaunson 's wief
, lately hath been and yet is very sycke . ORIGIN1,153.031.517

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When I shall have knowledge of any other Newes I shall ... to your
Grace of them : ORIGIN1,153.031.518

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
beseching the holy Trinite long to preserve your Grace .
ORIGIN1,153.031.519

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Poyssy a leege from Saint Germains this xxvj=th=. day of March .
ORIGIN1,153.031.520

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_031:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowres m ... Th ... ORIGIN1,153.031.521

<Q_OR1_A_1519?_T_TBOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN1_032> <A_THOMAS_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1477> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_154>

{ED:LETTER_LV._SIR_THOMAS_BOLEYN_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith yt your Grace to understand that the first day of this moneth
I wrote my last Lettres to your Grace , and as yet the King is nat
retorned from Melun , there as he hath been almost thes fortenyght a
huntyng . ORIGIN1,154.032.522

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But hither is come Lettres with great dylygence to the King $Catholique
$s {TEXT:Catholiques} Ambassadour from Frankford , and from my lady of
Savoye , specefieng how the King his master the xxviij. day of the last
moneth , at x. of the clocke afore noon , by th'assent and hoole voyce
of all the Electours was chosen Emperor . ORIGIN1,154.032.523

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And bicause there is yet noo lettres commen out of Almayn to the King
nor my Lady here of this matier my Lady marvayleth moch ,
ORIGIN1,154.032.524

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayth she feryth that Mons=r=. L'admiral is letted or evyll
intreatyd bicause she hath no word from hym , or elles their Post with
lettres is taken or stopped by the way . ORIGIN1,154.032.525

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neverthelesse my Lady sayth yf this be trew seyng the King her sonne
may nat be Emperor she is ryght glad that the King Catholique is chosen
. Sayeng that though the Kyng her sonne is nat Emperor , yet it is a
comfort to her that the King her sonnes son in <P_155> lawe is Emperor
. ORIGIN1,155.032.526

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How be it the trouth is that both the King and my Lady , and all this
Contre had rather any other had been chosen Emperor than the King
Catholique . ORIGIN1,155.032.527

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lady tellyth me that she is assured it hath cost hym a greyt good to
atteyn to this Empire ; in so moch she sayth she knoweth for a trouth
oon of the Electours hath had of hym two hundreth thowsand crownes ,
and namyng hym of Coloigne . ORIGIN1,155.032.528

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She sayth also that the Electours amongs them all hath not had of the
King her sonne past a hundreth thowsand Crownes , and moch she ma ...
and fereth lest the Admirall be nat well , ORIGIN1,155.032.529

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayth that the Letter that she had from hym was wrytten the xxvj.
day of the last moneth , wherein by his wryting he had as great trust
that the King here shuld be Emperor as ever he had .
ORIGIN1,155.032.530

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now Mons=r=. le Bastard and they of the Counsell here say yt is a
good torne for the King here , and a great weale for his reaulme that
he is not Emperor , ORIGIN1,155.032.531

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they say yf he had been it shuld have putt hym to an infante
busyness , and impoverychyd and undoone his subgietts .
ORIGIN1,155.032.532

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is also of late a new Ordenaunce made by the King and his Counsell
, and gyven to all them that have any horses for Posts or Currors ,
both here at the Cort and at Parys , that payn of their lyves they
delyver no horse nor horses to any man , ambassador or other , except
at the Court he have a bill from Robertet <P_156> in Parys from the
first President there . ORIGIN1,156.032.533

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have been , too , assuryd by my Lady that this is nat doon for any
Lett of L... that goyth in to England , ORIGIN1,156.032.534

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as farre as I can knowe that resortyth in and owt of Spayn ,
ORIGIN1,156.032.535

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lady hath ... whan so ever I woll depeche any lettres by Post .
ORIGIN1,156.032.536

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall stre ... a Bill of Robertett and of the first President of
Parys ... whan I woll . ORIGIN1,156.032.537

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Besechyng the holy Trinite long to preserve your Grace from Poyssy
ORIGIN1,156.032.538

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this iiij=th= day of July . ORIGIN1,156.032.539

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours ORIGIN1,156.032.540

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42?
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:28?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_032:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
T... ORIGIN1,156.032.541

<Q_OR1_A_1519?_T_RPACE> <L_ORIGIN1_033> <A_RICHARD_PACE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1482?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_156>

{ED:LETTER_LVI._RICHARD_PACE_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


<P_157>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleas itt your Grace I have thys daye visite my Lady Margarite ,
ORIGIN1,157.033.542

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have hadde off herre verraye large thanks for that I have doon in
Almayne for the Kynge Catholike in the late Election .
ORIGIN1,157.033.543

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And all the noble men off thys Courte haith yevyn unto me lyke thanks ,
and interteignydde me here in moste kynde and lovynge maner , wythoute
ony question made unto me off eny thynge that I had doon in the sayde
late Election for the advauncement of the Kynge our soverayne Lorde ,
as your Grace thoght they wolde have doon , as itt apperidde bi your
laste Lettres directidde unto me . ORIGIN1,157.033.544

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in verraye deade they have no cause to complayne uppon me ,
ORIGIN1,157.033.545

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I dydde nevyr speke agaynst the Kynge catholike in the sayde
Election , considerynge that itt was sufficient to me to have the
Electors speke agaynst hym , and allege reasons whye he schulde nott be
electidde ; ORIGIN1,157.033.546

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ande suerly they wolde nott have electidde hym yff fere off there
persons hadde not dryven them thereunto , and evident ruine off all
there nation yff they hadde electidde ony othre Kynge .
ORIGIN1,157.033.547

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I forseynge suche thyngis <paren> as itt apperith bi diverse my
Lettres sent to your Grace in that cause , I ordrede my self there
aftre wyth the orators off the sayde Kynge Catholyke , <P_158> in suche
maner that he , yff he obteignedde , schuld bi reason yff sum thanks to
the Kyngis Grace therfore . ORIGIN1,158.033.548

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Hesdyng haith wretyn to my Lady verraye acceptable Lettres
concernyng the Triumphe made there for the exaltation off the Kynge
Catholyke , and also off the Kyngis Grace 's and your lovyng myndis
towardis thys House , to the grete rejoyse off all thys Courte .
ORIGIN1,158.033.549

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He haith also wretyn to me a kynde Lettre offrynge unto me hys house
and all that is therin at my pleasure , and whyche commoditie I intende
not to use , but to take my voyage towardes Calice tomorrowe .
ORIGIN1,158.033.550

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lady , with diverse lordis here , wolde have me tary here bi the
space off ij. dayes in continuall fests and drynkyng ,
ORIGIN1,158.033.551

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but itt is not for my purpose to be syke ex crapula .
ORIGIN1,158.033.552

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Itt is not yet knowen whatt the army beynge at this tyme in Gelderlande
intendith ; ORIGIN1,158.033.553

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
no hedde doeth appere emongist them as yitt . ORIGIN1,158.033.554

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus Jesu preserve your Grace in long helth and continuall prosperitie
. ORIGIN1,158.033.555

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writtyn at Mechlyne thys xxvij. off July . By your Graces most humble
and feythfull servant R. Pace . ORIGIN1,158.033.556

AUTHOR:RICHARD_PACE:MALE:_:1482?:37?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_033:E1:1519?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Cardinalls Grace and Legat in England . ORIGIN1,158.033.557

<Q_OR1_A_1519_T_TBOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN1_034> <A_THOMAS_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1477> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_159>

{ED:LETTER_LVII._SIR_THOMAS_BOLEYN_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasith yt youre Grace to understand that the first day of this moneth
I wrote my last lettres to your Grace ; ORIGIN1,159.034.558

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on Sonday last past about x. of the clocke at nyght , the Kings
yong sonne whos title is Henry of Seynt Germayn Duke of Orleans , was
crystened , ORIGIN1,159.034.559

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Duke of Alaunson was the second godfather , and the duchesse of
Denamours the god mother . ORIGIN1,159.034.560

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And bicause York , this berar , was there present who can shewe your
Grace all the maner and order of the crystenyng I leve to wryte to your
Grace of the same ; saving that <P_160> according as your Grace hath
here a fore tyme wryten to me I presented to the Quene here in the name
of the Kings Highnesse the Salt , the Cuppe , and Layar of gold , which
was very much praysed ; ORIGIN1,160.034.561

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also the Quene and my Lady gave to the Kings Highnesse for the same
their loving and harty thanks . ORIGIN1,160.034.562

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after all was doon the King came to me ORIGIN1,160.034.563

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayd he thanked the King 's Highnesse of the great honnor that he
had doon hym in crystenyng of his chyld , sayeng that when so ever yt
shall fortune the Kings Highnesse to have a Prince he $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} glad to doo for hym in lyke maner , and that he is mynded
after his said sonne shall to age and be able to ... he purposyth to
send hym to the Kings Grace into Englande to doo hym service .
ORIGIN1,160.034.564

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the hundreth pounde that your Grace sent to gyve in reward , is
bistowed as folowith . ORIGIN1,160.034.565

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First the Noryce , oon hundreth crownes ; ORIGIN1,160.034.566

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to iiij. rockers of the yong Dukes chamber , ij. hundreth crownes ;
ORIGIN1,160.034.567

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to iij. gentlewomen of the Quenes Pryve Chamber called femmes de Ret
... a hundreth and fyfty crownes ; ORIGIN1,160.034.568

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at the Offryng xx nobils , which amounteth in all to the some of
oone hundreth pounds sterling and xv. crownes over . All which money
was paid and delyvered by the hands of York this berar and Richmount ,
which can shewe your Grace well inough therof . ORIGIN1,160.034.569

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Furthermore , as this berar can shewe your Grace , there hath been with
me at my lodging the Kings Porters , the T... and Officers of Armys
which with <P_161> importune manner asked reward saying that the Duke
of Urbyn at the crystenyng of the Dolphyn rewarded them ,
ORIGIN1,161.034.570

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wyth the best answer that I could make them nothyng given they went
away miscontent . ORIGIN1,161.034.571

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neverthelesse it is ... by honorabull folks here that the gyftes to the
Quene , and the money that is gyven in rewardes was sufficiently
honorable , and largely inough for the Kings honnor .
ORIGIN1,161.034.572

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have also laid out xj=li=. xij=s=. in sendyng dyvers tymes myn own
folks and other that I have hired to your Grace in to England , and to
Calais , with Lettres in post and otherwise , the which xj=li=. xij=s=.
and xv. crownes that I have layd out now more than hundreth poundes
that your Grace sent me by York to gyve in reward , is owing me .
ORIGIN1,161.034.573

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And forasmuch as the last money that your Grace sent me for a hundreth
dayes ended the xxviij=th=. day of May last past I besech your Grace
both to send me such dyett money as shall best please your Grace , and
that the said xj=li=. xij=s=. and xv. crownes that is owing me may be
also delivered to my prest which shall attend upon your Grace for yt .
ORIGIN1,161.034.574

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also I receyved yester evyn from your Grace , a Letter dated the
xxviij=th=. day of May , concernyng the Marchaunts matiers and divers
other things , whereof after I have spoken with the King , my Lady , or
the Counsell here I shall wryte to your Grace such answer as I shall
have of them with diligence . ORIGIN1,161.034.575

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is moch speking in the Court and more at <P_162> Parys of many
straunge bouts , whereof this berar can shewe your Grace by mowth as he
hath hard , and as I have shewed hym . ORIGIN1,162.034.576

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Besechyng the Holy Trinite long to preserve your Grace .
ORIGIN1,162.034.577

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Poyssy this vij=th=. day of June ORIGIN1,162.034.578

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre ... ORIGIN1,162.034.579

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BOLEYN:MALE:_:1477:42
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:46?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_034:E1:1519:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my moste especial and singular Lord ; my Lord Legat Cardinall ,
Chauncellar of England . ORIGIN1,162.034.580

<Q_OR1_A_1523_T_T2HOWARD> <L_ORIGIN1_035> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_214>

{ED:LETTER_LXXVII._THE_EARL_OF_SURREY_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesith it your Grace to be advertised , that upon Fridaye at x. a clok
at nyght I retorned to this towne , and all the garnysons to their
places assigned , the busshopriche men , my lorde of Westmerland , and
my Lord Dacre in likewise , every man home with their companys ,
without los of any men thanked be God saving viij. or x. slayne , and
dyvers hurt at skyrmishis and saults of the towne of Gedworth and the
forteresses ; whiche towne is soo suerly brent , that noo garnysons ner
none other $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} lodged there , unto the tyme it be
newe buylded : the brennyng whereof I commytted to twoo sure men , Sir
William Bulmer and Thomas Tempeste . ORIGIN1,214.035.581

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Towne was moche bettir then I went it had been ,
ORIGIN1,214.035.582

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there was twoo tymys moo howses therein then in Berwike , and vell
buylded with many honest and faire howses therein , sufficiente to have
lodged M=l= horsemen in garnyson , and six good towres therein ; which
towne and towres bee clerely distroyed , brent , and throwen downe .
ORIGIN1,214.035.583

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Undoubtedly there was noo jorney made into Scotland in noo manys day ,
leving <P_215> with soo fewe a nombre , that is recownted to bee soo
high and enterprice as this , bothe-4 with thies contreymen and
Scottishmen , nor of truthe somoche hurt doon ; ORIGIN1,215.035.584

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but in th'ende a great mysfortune ded fall , onely by foly , that suche
order as was comaunded by me to bee kepte was not observed , the maner
wherof herafter shall ensue . ORIGIN1,215.035.585

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Bifore myn entre into Scotland I appointed Sir William Bulmer and Sir
William Overs to be marshallis of th'army : Sir William Bulmer for the
vangard , and Sir William Overs for the reregard . ORIGIN1,215.035.586

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In the vangard I appointed my lord of Westmerland as cheif , with all
the busshopriche , Sir William Bulmer , Sir William Overs , my Lord
Dacre with all his company ; ORIGIN1,215.035.587

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with me remayned all the rest of the garnysons and the
Northumberland men . ORIGIN1,215.035.588

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was of counsaill with the Marshallis at th'ordering of our lodgings ,
ORIGIN1,215.035.589

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and our campe was soo well envirowned with ordynaunce , carts , and
diks , that hard it was to entre or issue , but at certain places
appointed for that purpoos ; ORIGIN1,215.035.590

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and assigned the mooste commodious place of the said campe for my Lord
Dacre company next the water , and next my Lord of Westmerland .
ORIGIN1,215.035.591

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And at suche tyme as my Lord Dacre came into the feld , I being at the
sault of th'abbay , whiche contynued unto twoo houres within nyght , my
said lord Dacre wold in nowise bee contente to ly within the campe ,
which was <P_216> made right sure , ORIGIN1,216.035.592

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but lodged hymself without , wherewith at my retourne I was not
contente , ORIGIN1,216.035.593

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but than it was to late to remove . ORIGIN1,216.035.594

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The next day I sente my seid Lord Dacre to a strong hold called
Fernherst , the lorde whereof was his mortall enemy , and with him Sir
Arthure Darcy , Sir Marmaduke Constable , with vij c. of their men ,
one cortoute , and dyvers other good peces of ordynaunce for the feld .
ORIGIN1,216.035.595

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The seid Fernherste stode marvelous strongly within a great woode .
ORIGIN1,216.035.596

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The seid twoo knights with the moost parte of their men , and Strikland
your Graces servaunte , with iij C. Kendall men , went into the woode
on fote with th'ordynaunce , where the seid Kendall men were soo
handled that they found hardy men that went noo foote bak for theym .
ORIGIN1,216.035.597

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The other twoo Knights were alsoo soo sharply assayled that they were
enforced to call for moo of their men , and yet could not bring
th'ordynaunce to the forteresse unto the tyme my lord Dacre with part
of his horsemen lighted on fote , and marvelously herdly handled
hymself ; ORIGIN1,216.035.598

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and fynally with long stikmyshing and moche difficultie , gut forthe
th'ordynaynce , ORIGIN1,216.035.599

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
wan the howse , ORIGIN1,216.035.600

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and threwe downe the same . At whiche skyrmyshe my seid Lord Dacre and
his brother Sir Cristofer , Sir Arthure , and Sir Marmaduke , and many
other gentilmen , ded marvelously hardly , and found the best
resistence that hath be seen sith my comyng to thies parties , and
above <P_217> xxx=ti=. Scottis slayne , and not passing iiij. English
men ; but above sixty hurt . ORIGIN1,217.035.601

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Aftir that , my seid Lord retornyng to the campe , wold in nowise bee
lodged in the same , but where he laye the furst nyght :
ORIGIN1,217.035.602

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he being with me at souper about viij. a clok , the horses of his
company brake lowse , ORIGIN1,217.035.603

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sodenly ran out of his feld in suche nombre that it caused a
marvelous alarome in our feld ; ORIGIN1,217.035.604

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and our standing watche being set , the horses cam ronnyng along the
campe , at whome were shot above one hundred sheif of arrowes and
dyvers gonnys , thinking they had bee Scotts that wold have saulted the
campe . ORIGIN1,217.035.605

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fynally the horses were soo madde that they ran like wild dere into the
feld above xv. C. at the leest in dyvers companys ; ORIGIN1,217.035.606

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in one place above l. fill downe a great rok ORIGIN1,217.035.607

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and slewe theymself ; ORIGIN1,217.035.608

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and above two hundred and fifty ran into the towne being on fire , and
by the women taken and caried awaye , right evil brent ;
ORIGIN1,217.035.609

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and many were taken agayne ; ORIGIN1,217.035.610

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fynally by that I can esteme by the nombre of theym that I sawe goo
on fote the next daye , I think there is lost above viij. C. horses ,
and all with foly for lak of not lying within the campe .
ORIGIN1,217.035.611

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dare not write the wonders that my Lord Dacre and all his company doo
saye they sawe that nyght , vj. tymys , of sprits and ferefull sights .
ORIGIN1,217.035.612

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And unyversally all their company saye playnely , the Devill was that
nyght amongs theym vj. tymys . Whiche mysfortune hath blemyshed the
best Jorney that was made in Scotland <P_218> many yeres .
ORIGIN1,218.035.613

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I assure your Grace I found the Scotts at this tyme the boldest men ,
and the hotest that ever I sawe any nation : ORIGIN1,218.035.614

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all the Jorney , upon all parts of th'army kept us with so
contynuall skyrmyshe that I never sawe the like . ORIGIN1,218.035.615

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If they myght assemble forty thousand as good men as I nowe sawe
fifteen hundred or two thousand , it wold bee an herd encounter to mete
theym . ORIGIN1,218.035.616

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pitie it is of my lord Dacres losse of the horses of his company .
ORIGIN1,218.035.617

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He brought with hym above four thousand men , ORIGIN1,218.035.618

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lodged one nyght in Scotland in his moost mortall enemys contre .
ORIGIN1,218.035.619

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There is noo herdyer ner bettir knyght , ORIGIN1,218.035.620

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but often tym he doth not use the most sure ordre ; whiche he hath nowe
payed derely for . ORIGIN1,218.035.621

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written at Berwike the xxvij. of September . ORIGIN1,218.035.622

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your most bownden T. Surrey . ORIGIN1,218.035.623

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_035:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legats goode Grace . ORIGIN1,218.035.624

<Q_OR1_A_1523_T_T2HOWARD> <L_ORIGIN1_036> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_223>

{ED:LETTER_THE_EARL_OF_SURREY_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY._A._D._1523.}_CO
DE

<P_224>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesith it your Grace too be advertised , that this Day at x. a clok I
received one Lettre of newes from Sir William Bulmer sente hym fro the
Priores of Calestreme , and one other sente to me fro the Lord Ogle
from Wark of such newes as he hath fro the Priores of Ocles in
Scotlande . ORIGIN1,224.036.625

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beleve right moche that the contents of the Priores of Calestremys
Lettres bee trewe ; ORIGIN1,224.036.626

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thoder doo not moche vary fro the same . ORIGIN1,224.036.627

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alsoo by dyuers other wayes I have advertisments that the Duke
prepareth all that he can t'invade this realme with the light of this
nexte newe Mone , and by his words doo right litle esteme the poure of
England . <P_225> Wherefor to theffecte of yo=r= Graces late Lettre I
shall tomorrowe send lettres to all the noble men and gentilmen
dwelling withen the Shiris conteyned in my commyssion too bee here in
this Towne the xx=ti=. daye of this Moneth , trusting that and all men
come accordingle the seid Duke shall fynd more sharp recistance than he
doth loke for . ORIGIN1,225.036.628

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And notwithstanding that the weder hath bee here soo foule with
mervelous greate rayne dyvers dayes , and mooste specially yesterdaye
with rayne and this daye with snowe , soo that the opinion of many wise
men is it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} very difficile for the seid Duke to
cary any greate ordynance onles it bee to Berwike , yet forasmoche as
he myght doo enfynyte hurte in over rynnyng the Contre onles he were
recisted , I shale cause all my seid poure to come forewards , and to
bee here at the daye prefixed . ORIGIN1,225.036.629

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if I shall see that the Duke shall altre his purpoos in setting
furth I shall contermawnde theym , too thentente the Kingis Highnes
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} put too no more chardge $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} requysite ; whereunto I $shall $have {TEXT:shalhave} the
beste regard I can , the daunger of distruccion of the contre by
thennemys provided for . Mooste humble beseching your Grace too helpe
that some noblemen and gentilmen of the Kingis hous and the south
parties maye be sente hither though they bring no greate nombres with
theym . ORIGIN1,225.036.630

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God knoweth if the poreste gentilman in the Kingis hous were here , and
I at London and were advertised of <P_226> thies newes I wold not faile
to knele upon my knees bifore the kings grace too have licence to come
hither in poste too bee at the daye of batayle . ORIGIN1,226.036.631

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if yong noble men and gentilmen be not desierous and willing to be
at suche jorneys , and to take the payne and yeve the adventure , and
the Kingis highnes well contented with thoos that woll so doo , and not
regarding others that $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} but dauncers , disers ,
and carders , his Grace shall not bee well served when he wold bee ;
ORIGIN1,226.036.632

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for men withoute experience shall doo small servyce ,
ORIGIN1,226.036.633

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and experience of war woll not be had withoute it be sought for and the
adventure yeven . ORIGIN1,226.036.634

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Of likelihode no man leving shall ever lyve to se the Scotts attempte
t'envade this realme with the powre of Scotland if they may bee well
resisted nowe . ORIGIN1,226.036.635

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And by many wayes I am advertised that the Duke of Albany is a
mervelous wilfull man , and woll beleve noo mannys counsaill , but woll
have his owne opinion folowed . And bicause the Frenche King hath be at
soo greate chardges by his provoking , having his wiffs inherytance
lying within his domynyons , dare not for no Scottish counsell forbere
t'envade this realme . ORIGIN1,226.036.636

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am also advertised that he is so passionate that and he bee aperte
amongis his familiers , and doth here any thing contrarius to his
myende and pleasure , his accustumed manner is too take his bonet
sodenly of his hed and to throwe it in the fire ; ORIGIN1,226.036.637

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and no man dare take it oute , ORIGIN1,226.036.638

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but let <P_227> it to be brent . ORIGIN1,227.036.639

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord Dacre doth affirme that at his last being in Scotland he did
borne above a dosyn bonetts aftir that maner . ORIGIN1,227.036.640

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if he be suche a man , with Gods grace we shall spede the bettir
with hym . ORIGIN1,227.036.641

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fynally , mooste humble I beseche your Grace to send more money , at
the leeste viij $M $=li=.; {TEXT:M=li=.;} and t'advertise me of the
Kingis pleasure and yours howe I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} further
ordred in any thing ye woll commaunde me , whiche too the beste of my
poure I shall fulfill , trusting that the gonners be well on the waye
hiderwards . ORIGIN1,227.036.642

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And sory I am that the Kingis Highnes and your Grace be nowe so fer in
sondre , whiche I perceive is th'occasion that my Lettres sente to your
Grace from tyme too tyme bee the lenger un answered ,
ORIGIN1,227.036.643

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also moche slouth is used by the Posts wiche maye be amended if it
woll pleas your Grace to write one open Lettre too all the Posts ,
chardging theym to make such diligence nowe in riding that your Graces
Lettres fro London to this towne , and my Lettres fro this Towne to
London , maye bee conveyed in xlviij. houres at the leeste , whiche
they maye well doo . ORIGIN1,227.036.644

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thanked be God , this nyght and this daye I have ben well amended
of my diseases . ORIGIN1,227.036.645

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written at Newcastell the viij=th=. day of Octobr . ORIGIN1,227.036.646

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your's most bownden T. Surrey . ORIGIN1,227.036.647

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_036:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legats good Grace . ORIGIN1,227.036.648

<Q_OR1_CA_1523_T_T2HOWARD> <L_ORIGIN1_037> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_228>

{ED:LETTER_LORD_SURREY_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY._THE_LAST_SIXTEEN_LINE
S_ONLY_OF_THIS_LETTER_ARE_IN_LORD_SURREY'S_HAND.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Pleaseth it your Grace to bee advertised that I have forborne to write
to your Grace sith the xviij. of this moneth , having no verey certain
tydings what the Duke entendeth to do unto this day that I have
received dyvers Lettres as well fro the Quene of Scottis , fro Sir
William Bulmer , and others , all which Lettres I send herewith unto
your Grace . ORIGIN1,228.037.649

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And where in one Lettre is conteyned that she doth send her servant
unto me for peace comprehending Fraunce , I truste this night or
tomorrow to be advertised fro your Grace of the Kingis pleasure and
Yours howe I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} ordred in aunswering any offre to
be made to me fro truse or peace , ORIGIN1,228.037.650

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
and shall defer making any answer unto the tyme I shall knowe the same
. ORIGIN1,228.037.651

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And as towching the comprehension of France , onles your Grace do write
to me what answer I shall make therein , I shall saye that I have none
auctoritie to speke therein ; and that I beleve verely the Kingis
highnes woll not be content therewith , and that I believe his Highnes
woll think the Duke of Albany to be too meane a personage to medle with
soo high a matier : ORIGIN1,228.037.652

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
notwithstanding I woll advertise his Grace thereof ,
ORIGIN1,228.037.653

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
and when <P_229> I shall knowe his mooste graciouse pleasure I shall
advertise your Grace of the same . ORIGIN1,229.037.654

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And as touching her comyng awaye I shall shewe her that I have
commandemente to receive her if she come , ORIGIN1,229.037.655

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
notwithstanding I think she might both doo more good in Scotland to the
Kingis highnes and to the King her son , then she shuld do being in
England . Assuering her that she shall lak no good helpe of the Kingis
Grace , she contynuing in her good mynde towards his Highnes .
ORIGIN1,229.037.656

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Also pleaseth it your Grace to be advertised that upon Tuysdaye last my
Lord Marquise with all the gentilmen of the Kingis hous came hither :
ORIGIN1,229.037.657

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
and the same day came my lorde of Northumberland , my lord Clifford ,
my lorde Latymer , my lord Darcy , my lord Scrope . ORIGIN1,229.037.658

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And sith that time is come all theire powere , and all other gentilmen
of Yorkshire hooly , and in likewise Lancashire , and dyvers of
Cheshire , Notingham , Derby , Staff. and Shropshire , and all your
Grace 's retynue . ORIGIN1,229.037.659

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And this daye is come your Grace 's treasourer Sir William Gascoyne .
ORIGIN1,229.037.660

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
I assure your Grace , God willing , we shall have men inoughe ; and the
beste willed men unyversally fro the higheste to the loweste that ever
I sawe . ORIGIN1,229.037.661

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And bicause all bee not yet come asfer as Duresme , and also that the
wether hath bee soo mervelously reyne whiche hath so raysed the waters
that noo man maye pas from hens northward . <P_230> And also for that I
was not advertised that the Duke was set forewards , nor knowing whiche
waye he wold hold , I have stopped thos that came furste in this towne
and bitwene this and Morpath and Hexham , and th'oders abouts Duresme .
ORIGIN1,230.037.662

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And tomorowe my Lorde Marques shall marche to Anwike , and with hym my
lord Darcy and many others , to th'entente that and the Duke wold send
in any good nombre to overrun the contre they maye be redy to defend
the same . ORIGIN1,230.037.663

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And I with the reste woll not marche past Morpath myself , and thos
nowe that bee at Duresme unto this towne , unto the tyme I shall suerly
know whether he woll goo to th'Esteborder or the Weste .
ORIGIN1,230.037.664

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
For if I shuld goo any further I shuld bee compelled to retorne for lak
of vitell : ORIGIN1,230.037.665

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
for I can get no cariage in maner for money too cary any with me .
ORIGIN1,230.037.666

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Assuering your Grace that I think it not possible the Duke can bring
his Ordinaunce unto Norham , Wark , or Carlizle before Mondaye , though
it reyned no more unto that tyme , the waters bee nowe soo marvelously
greate that no man leving hath seen them greatter ; ORIGIN1,230.037.667

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
but unto Berwicke he maye well com upon the ferther side of the water .
ORIGIN1,230.037.668

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Praying God to send hym thither , where I truste he shall not onely
consume his tyme in vayne , somany good men nowe being within the Towne
, but alsoo we comyng thidder shall have some reasonable store of
vitell , and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} <P_231> able to geve batayle at
our advantage . ORIGIN1,231.037.669

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Fynally assure your Grace I and all others here bee all aferde of one
thing that he shall not dare abide us . ORIGIN1,231.037.670

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And grete pitie it were that the Kingis Highnes shuld spend thus moche
money withoute batayle . ORIGIN1,231.037.671

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And , as I think if he abide us we shall mete about Tuysdaye nexte .
ORIGIN1,231.037.672

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
He doth make grete booste off the londyng off Richard de la Pole in
Scotlond assewryng the Lords off Scotlond that he shall have gret help
in this realme , wherfor after my poure opinion it wer well done Sir
Riz ap Thomas wer warned to be in a redynes , ORIGIN1,231.037.673

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
for the seid Duc seith he shall londe in Wales . ORIGIN1,231.037.674

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Iff your Grace know any man suspect I dout not ye woll provyde that he
shall not shyp away . ORIGIN1,231.037.675

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
I know no man lyvyng that I shuld mystrust , ORIGIN1,231.037.676

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
but he hath spoken so largely and dayle doth , that I know not what to
thynk . ORIGIN1,231.037.677

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Most humble besechyng your Grace that and I fortewne to myscary in this
Journey , to be gode lord to my poure chylderne , assewryng your Grace
that without the Kyng 's gracious favour and your Grace 's shewed unto
them , they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} undone . ORIGIN1,231.037.678

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
For I have spent somoch to serve the Kyng 's Hyghnes , that , iff God
do now his plesure off me , I shall leve them the pourest noblemanny 's
childerne that died in this realme thes xl. yers ; havyng neyther goods
nor fote off londe to put in feofment to do them gode after me .
ORIGIN1,231.037.679

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
And therfor most humble I beseche Your Grace to be gode and gracious
Lord to them , for my poure <P_232> service done in tymes past .
ORIGIN1,232.037.680

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Scribled the xxiij. day off October at xj. at nyght .
ORIGIN1,232.037.681

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
Yo=rs=. most bownden T. Surrey . ORIGIN1,232.037.682

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:50?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_037:E1:1523:CA:OTHER
To my Lord Legats good Grace . ORIGIN1,232.037.683

<Q_OR1_A_1523_T_T2HOWARD> <L_ORIGIN1_038> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1473> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_232>

{ED:LETTER_LXXXII._LORD_SURREY_TO_KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plesith it your Highnes to be advertised that upon Satirdaye at night
the Duke of Albany with a greate puysance brought his ordynaunce unto
Werk , on the fer side of Twede , upon Scotland side , and began to
shote right sore upon Sondaye by the breke of daye , and so contynued
all that daye and Mondaye . And whiche tyme I being at Holy Island ,
vij. myles from Berwike , was advertised of the same at seven a clok at
night the said Sondaye ; and incontynente sent Lettres to my lord
Cardynalls company , my lord of Northumberland , my lord of
Westmoreland at Sainte Cutberts baner lying at Anwike and thereabouts ,
and in likewise to my lord Dacre and other lords and gentilmen lying
abrode in the countre , too mete me at <P_233> Barmer wood , fyve myles
from Werk on Mondaye , who so ded . ORIGIN1,233.038.684

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the seid Monday at iij. a cloke at aftir none , the water of Twede
being soo high that it could not be riden the Duke sent over ij M.
Frenche men in bootis to gif assault to the place , who with force
entred the bas courte , and by Sir William Lizle captain of the Castell
with a hundred with him were right manfully defended by the space of
one houre and an half , without suffring theym t'entre the Inner Ward ;
ORIGIN1,233.038.685

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fynally the seid Frenchemen entred the Inner warde , whiche
perceived by the seid Sir William and his company frely set upon theym
, and not onely drove theym oute of the Inner warde , but alsoo oute of
the Uttir warde , and slewe of the seid Frenche men x. personys .
ORIGIN1,233.038.686

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so the seid Frenche men wente over the water ; ORIGIN1,233.038.687

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and incontynent the seid Sir William advertised me of the said assaulte
, desiering too have reskue this daye , ORIGIN1,233.038.688

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or els the place wold be no lenger kepte : whereof I being advertised
by thre a clok this mornyng , avaunced foreward with the hole army by
the breke of daye . ORIGIN1,233.038.689

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Duke hering that I cam towards hym toke away his ordynance ,
ORIGIN1,233.038.690

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in likewise departed hymself with his hoole company ,
ORIGIN1,233.038.691

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as yet I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} advertise your Grace of trouth
howe fer he is goon , ORIGIN1,233.038.692

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but tomorrowe I doubte not I shall knowe the certentie .
ORIGIN1,233.038.693

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I doubte moche that if he here that I breke this army that he woll
retorne with his <P_234> ordynance unto Werk , whiche I feare woll not
hold long againste hym ; ORIGIN1,234.038.694

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for and if I had not made newe fortifications of bulwerks of erthe , it
had not be tenable one half daye . ORIGIN1,234.038.695

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold it were in the See , ORIGIN1,234.038.696

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I knowe not how to get men to remayne in it . ORIGIN1,234.038.697

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir undoubtedly ther was never man departed with more shame nor with
more feare than the Duke hath doon this daye : ORIGIN1,234.038.698

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and notwithstanding the greate Assemble that he hath made in Scotland
he hath not doon x=s=. worth of hurte within your Grace 's realme ,
ORIGIN1,234.038.699

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor never durste hymself entre the same . ORIGIN1,234.038.700

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I feare me it shall not be possible for me to kepe this Army no
longer togidder ; ORIGIN1,234.038.701

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for suche as come oute of the bisshopriche , this contre , and other
places , at their own costs , have spent all that they have ;
ORIGIN1,234.038.702

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with moche difficulte and faire words have kepte theym here thus
long . ORIGIN1,234.038.703

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Notwithstanding I shall doo my beste to kepe theym togidder unto the
tyme that I shall knowe the Duks army bee perspoiled .
ORIGIN1,234.038.704

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Assuering your Grace that maister Magnus hath but iij. M. marks lefte ;
ORIGIN1,234.038.705

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if th'army shuld be discharged tomorrowe next , I think x M. marks
woll not paye that is owing and conduyte money home .
ORIGIN1,234.038.706

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And considering howe paynefully and with howe good will they have
served , it were pitie they shuld departe withoute having that was
promysed theym , wherfore mooste humble I beseche your Highnes that
convenyent money maye be sente hither with diligence .
ORIGIN1,234.038.707

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it come not bifore the departing <P_235> hens of th'army , to
th'entente they shuld not goo hens groudging and speking shrodly , I
shall delyver theym asmoche as is here with asmoche more as I maye
borowe . ORIGIN1,235.038.708

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also I shall bynd myself by my bill signed with myn hand to paye
theym asmoche as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} due for the reste ;
ORIGIN1,235.038.709

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
mooste humble besechyng your Highnes to see me dischardged of the same
with convenyente diligence , ORIGIN1,235.038.710

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
or els I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} uttirly undoon for ever .
ORIGIN1,235.038.711

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also I beseche your Grace to send thankfull lettres to suche as have
doon good servyce at this tyme , whos names be conteyned in a bill
herein closed : also lx. iiij=xx=. blanks to be written here to suche
as I doo not remembre the names of : assuering your Grace that in all
my lif I never sawe somany Englishmen in none army nor so well willed
as thees were fro the higheste to the loweste , ORIGIN1,235.038.712

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor never was gentilman so moche bounde as I have been this Jorney to
all noblemen , gentilmen , and souldiors ; whiche favor they have
shewed me for the greate love they bere to your Highnes , and the
desierous myende they have to doo your Grace service .
ORIGIN1,235.038.713

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written in the Campe ij. myles from Wark this Tuysday at night .
ORIGIN1,235.038.714

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your most humble subject and servant T. Surrey . ORIGIN1,235.038.715

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_II:MALE:_:1473:50
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:32
LETTER:ORIGIN1_038:E1:1523:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Kings most noble Grace . ORIGIN1,235.038.716

<Q_OR1_A_1524_T_TDACRE> <L_ORIGIN1_039> <A_THOMAS_DACRE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_240>

{ED:LETTER_LXXXV._LORD_DACRE_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


<P_241>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lorde pleas it your Grace to knowe that this present hour I am
advertised by my secrete espiall out of Scotland that the Lordes of the
same contynueng <P_242> to giddres all Witson Weke in Edinburghe were
in the Tolbothe of the same Monday , Tewisday , Wednisday , and
Thurysday laste paste in counseill , ORIGIN1,242.039.717

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there the Duke of Albany demanded of theim by his writing certein
things articulerly as your Grace may perceive by theim , with the
Lordes aunsweres ensewing ; that is to saye Furst the said Duke
deasired thre monthes licence of the King and Lordes to th'intent in
that tyme he mought departe in France and retorne in Scotland again for
certain considerations moving the King and Wele of Scotland , specially
for the making of provision for the defence and susteignyng of the
Warres anempt and against the Kings Highnes our Soveraign Lorde and his
realme , and to knowe what the Frenche Kings parte shulde be , to the
supple of Scotlande ; ORIGIN1,242.039.718

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and to that effect deasired a Commission with Servants of the Kings to
passe with hym in Fraunce for his aunswere , good counseill , and
supple to be had and knowen towards Scotlande . ORIGIN1,242.039.719

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes aunswered sayeing it was not tyme now for hym to remeve
furth of the Realme , ORIGIN1,242.039.720

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
remembring the grete damagies that the realme and pore subjects had
susteigned in his absence past , and considering that towards the King
and Realme apperauntt grete warres , and also , as they were advertised
, the Realme by all lyklyhode wolde in shorte tyme be preserved by
<P_243> the Kings Highnes our soverain Lorde and his realme , and seing
the King now at nonage , and he having governaunce of his Realme , it
were not his honor to be absent fro the defence of it .
ORIGIN1,243.039.721

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He aunswered ORIGIN1,243.039.722

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and said he had suche secrete busynes to do with the Frenche King
concernyng the same that he must nedes in his owne person speke with
hym . ORIGIN1,243.039.723

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes hering the same , graunted hym the said licence with a
commission to oon Maister David Beton , a clerke , and a harrolde , to
departe with hym in Fraunce ; which thre persones ar delivered with
powier and departed with him accordingly . ORIGIN1,243.039.724

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Secundely the Duke desired the bande that was maide in Rowane by the
bishop of Dunkelde , the secretary , and the bushop of Ross to be kept
by the King and the Lordes to the Frenche King , and no peas to be
takin with this Realme of Inglande during the time of his licence ; and
further in his absens , without the advice of the French Kyng and hym .
ORIGIN1,243.039.725

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes aunswered that the bande made in Rowane they were contented
shulde be kept , so that the Frenche King wolde in the mean season kepe
the bande maide to the King of Scotts ; ORIGIN1,243.039.726

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in likewise the lordes of Scotlande ar contented to contynew the
warre enduring his licence , and further , unto they had the Frenche
Kings advice , except that the King 's <P_244> Highnes our Soverain
lorde be his maigne power in the mean season fortuned to invade and
pursue Scotland , whiche Scotland were not able to resiste , that then
he being absent , <paren> of force </paren> they must neds take peas
with our said Soverain and his Realme . ORIGIN1,244.039.727

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thirdly the Duke desired the Quene and the Lordes to holde the King in
the Castell of Strivelying , and boundes divised for hym afore , to his
retorne in Scotland again , binding the Quene neither to confederate
with the Kings Highnes our said Soverain lorde nor to consent to peas .
To the which deasires the Quene denyed hym in a parte , saing if he
yode awaye she must neds do for her self : ORIGIN1,244.039.728

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and inlikewise the lordes said , promising to do their best to cause
hym kepe in , so farr as they might solicite hym . ORIGIN1,244.039.729

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fourthly the Duke deasired that Grisels , a Frenchman , his servant ,
might remaine in Scotland as Treasourer of the same , having
th'auctoritye of his office whiles his retorne again in Scotlande , and
nothing to be done or consented unto in any greate mattiers unto they
had his advice . ORIGIN1,244.039.730

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes aunswered , saing , what servant so ever he pleased to leif
theim shulde be welcum , ORIGIN1,244.039.731

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they thought not suche a man mete for that office .
ORIGIN1,244.039.732

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fiftly the Duke deasired that the Quene shulde be obeyed in all her
rights . ORIGIN1,244.039.733

<P_245>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes aunswered ORIGIN1,245.039.734

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and said the pleasure and service that they might do shulde be at her
commandement . ORIGIN1,245.039.735

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sextly and laste of all the Duke deasired to have and borrow of the
Lordes forty thousand Crownes of the Son to furnishe hym certein wages
, and for the furnishing of his Shippes , and he to deliver the same
again to the merchands of Scotlande in the Towne of Deipe .
ORIGIN1,245.039.736

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lordes maide aunswer herunto they coude not make hym any siche som
of money : ORIGIN1,245.039.737

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and said , if he wold remaigne with them to the suppleying of the
warres , thay shulde ware with hym their bodies and goodes . Wherupon
the same Duke having all the Lordes afore hym on Fridaye last paste
tooke leve of theim and rode that night to Lithguo : on Satturday to
Stryveling , and there remaigned Sondaye , taking his leif of the King
and Quene : and determined to be in Glasgue yesterdaye : and this
Tewisday to Dumbretain , where as he wol take shippe if the wynde wol
serve hym . ORIGIN1,245.039.738

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Immediatly aftre he be entred ship , and sailed out of sight frome
Dumbretayn , I am promised to be surely and diligently advertised
therof ; ORIGIN1,245.039.739

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if there be any retorne of hym your Grace $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
certefied accordingly , <P_246> God willing , who preserve your Grace .
ORIGIN1,246.039.740

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Whittingham this last daye of May at iij. of the clok in the mornyng
. ORIGIN1,246.039.741

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowrs to hyes serves Thomas Dacre . ORIGIN1,246.039.742

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_039:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my Lord Legats Grace . ORIGIN1,246.039.743

<Q_OR1_A_1524_T_TDACRE> <L_ORIGIN1_040> <A_THOMAS_DACRE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_246>

{ED:LETTER_LXXXVI._LORD_DACRE_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , pleas it your Grace to be ascerteyned , according to my
former advertisements made unto your Grace of the Duc of Albanies
departure out of Scotland ; ORIGIN1,246.040.744

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so it was at his said departure the Lordes of Scotland and he did not
aggre verey well : ORIGIN1,246.040.745

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for his intente and purpose was to have gone with a certein nombre unto
the Isle of Man , ORIGIN1,246.040.746

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and had viteilled his shippes and made all other provisions for the
same accordingly . ORIGIN1,246.040.747

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whan it came to the poincte of his departing , all those that had
promised to go with hym satt downe ORIGIN1,246.040.748

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and refused the Jorney . ORIGIN1,246.040.749

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Albeit of trouthe , the lordes of Scotland ar strately bounde and
sworne to stik still at the said Duks opynyon and the League <P_247> of
France unto the laste daye of Auguste next comyng , at which daye he
hath promised to retorne into Scotland ; ORIGIN1,247.040.750

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , if he fale therof , he $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} clerely exempted
from all his auctoritie in Scotland . ORIGIN1,247.040.751

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I am surely enformed that the said Lordes of Scotland woll kepe
their promisse to the said Duc , and nothing do contrary the same for
the tyme , except it be by force and compulsion . ORIGIN1,247.040.752

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Albeit I am inlikewise enformed , and verely truste , that if it so
fortune that the said Duc breke his promisse , and cum not again at his
appoincted daye , the said Lordes and counseill of Scotland woll not
onely leave his wayes , and exclude hym clerely from all his auctoritie
which he hath in Scotland , but also semblably provide so that they may
have peax with the Kings Highnes by their owne meanes ; and geve over
all bands , leages , and promises that are confermed betwene theim and
the Frenche King . Wherfore seyng that the said lords of Scotland woll
make persuyte to the King 's Highnes for peax or treux now in the Ducs
absence , without it be for a surceace of warre to be taken betwixt the
wardeins upon the Bordors for a season , <paren> which is only for
their and the Duks commoditie , </paren> right necessarie and requisite
it is that the Kings Highnes and your Grace devise a substanciall order
what is beste to be done for their annoyance now in the moste
commodious tyme of the yere : ORIGIN1,247.040.753

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , according as I have declared unto your Grace in my former
writings , it is but small exployt <P_248> that I can do with the
nombre of men that lie now here in garnyson , remembring how the
Bordors of Scotland have bene contynually destroyed sens the warres
beganne . So that there is no rode that can be made upon the said
Bordors with so small a nombre to the Kings honor . ORIGIN1,248.040.754

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howbeit I assure your Grace , for it that we might do , I have holden
them in quik occupation , making of excourses contynually .
ORIGIN1,248.040.755

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for proif that the frontors of the Bordors of Scotland ar in maner
destroyed , now lately the viij=th=. day of this present monthe Sir
William Evre lieutenant of the Middill Merchies , accumpanied with one
thousand men and moo , made a Jorney into Scotland ,
ORIGIN1,248.040.756

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and did verey well , ORIGIN1,248.040.757

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seased and brought awey above viij=c=. nowte with many horses and
othr catall , as shepe , and gate to a great nombre , and miche insight
, which I assure your Grace they did fetche xvj. myles within the
grounde of Scotland . ORIGIN1,248.040.758

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in likewise my son , and my broder Sir Cristofer Dacre <paren>
accumpanied with a parte of the Weste marchies </paren> the same tyme
made an oder Jorney into Scotland , ORIGIN1,248.040.759

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there seased and gat nigh upon a thousand nowte , and miche oder
catall , whiche they did fetche xx. myles within the grounde of
Scotland . ORIGIN1,248.040.760

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so your Grace may perceive that it is litill that we can do but
only kepe the Bordors from excourses , though the Kings Highnes be at
grete charge ; seing that litill or nothinge is lefte upon the <P_249>
frontors of Scotland without it be parte of ald Howses wherof the thak
and covereings ar taken awey , bireason wherof they $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} be brint as my lord Treasurer can shew your Grace .
ORIGIN1,249.040.761

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therefore under correction of your Grace if it be the Kings
pleasure and Yours <paren> as I trust it is </paren> that sharp warre
be made upon Scotland , provision must be made for the same now in tyme
; ORIGIN1,249.040.762

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and not only the number of five or six thousand men to be putt in
arredines as nighehande the Bordors as may be conveniently , to cum
forward at diverse tymes whan they $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} called upon
, for making of certen grete rodes ; ORIGIN1,249.040.763

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alwey , after a grete rode made to have wagies for that tyme only
and to departe , and retorne to an order as they $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} called upon ; ORIGIN1,249.040.764

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but also ordinance and horses to drawe the same with all oder
necessaries therunto belonging to be made redy accordingly .
ORIGIN1,249.040.765

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For surely to dryve the tyme as we do , leving in defense , and doing
but small hurt to the Kings enemyes , it is nothing to the honor of his
Highnes , and far lesse to his prouffite as your Grace may well
perceive . ORIGIN1,249.040.766

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if the Kings Highnes and your Grace woll not take this ordre , or
othr like ordre , for oppressing of the said Scotts , then <paren>
under your Grace 's correction </paren> best it is that a surcease of
Werre be taken by the wardeins for a season , which I am sure the
Lordes of Scotland woll specially deasire , because it is for their
owne commoditie , ORIGIN1,249.040.767

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after <P_250> that , I trust , the Chauncellare of Scotlande
<paren> with whome the Duc hath left his hole auctoritie </paren> wolde
be contented to mete at the bordors any honorable person that the King
's Highnes and your Grace wold appointe , for to common and speke of
peax and tranquillitie to be had betwene thes two realmes , whereunto
he hath alwey allegied that he is right well affectionate and mynded .
ORIGIN1,250.040.768

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if a surceace of werre were taken wherby that the bordors of
Scotland might be plenisshed , and the estats of the realme gete
prouffite <paren> which they now lak </paren> , percaase they shuld
fynde it so swete that they wold be wel advised or they brak agian
aithr for the pleasour of the Frenche King , the Duc of Albany , or of
any oder . As knoweth the Holy Trinite who preserve Your Grace .
ORIGIN1,250.040.769

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Hexham the xj=th=. day of Junii . ORIGIN1,250.040.770

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DACRE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:51?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_040:E1:1524:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowrs with hys serves Thomas Dacre . ORIGIN1,250.040.771

<Q_OR1_A_1520S_T_HENRY8> <L_ORIGIN1_041> <A_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1491> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_269>

{ED:LETTER_XCII._KING_HENRY_THE_EIGHTH_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Myne awne good Cardinall , I recomande me unto you with all my hart ,
ORIGIN1,269.041.772

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thanke yow for the grette payne and labour that yow do dayly take
in my bysynes and maters , desyryng yow <paren> that wen yow have well
establyshyd them </paren> to take summe pastyme and comfort , to the
intent yow may the longer endure to serve us ; ORIGIN1,269.041.773

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for allways payne can nott be induryd . ORIGIN1,269.041.774

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Surly yow have so substancyally orderyd oure maters bothe off thys syde
the See and byonde that in myne oppynyon lityll or nothyng can be addyd
; ORIGIN1,269.041.775

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nevertheles , accordyng <P_270> to your desyre , I do send yow myne
oppynyon by thys berar , the refformacion whereoff I do remytte to yow
and the remnante off our trusty consellers , whyche I am sure wyll
substantyally loke on hyt . ORIGIN1,270.041.776

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As tochyng the mater that Syr Wyllyam Says broght answar off , I am
well contentyd with what order so ever yow do take in itt .
ORIGIN1,270.041.777

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Quene my wyff hath desyryd me to make har most harty
recommendations to yow , as to hym that she lovethe very well ,
ORIGIN1,270.041.778

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and both she and I wolde knowe fayne when yow wyll repayre to us .
ORIGIN1,270.041.779

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
No more to yow att thys tyme bot that with God 's helpe I trust we
shall dysspoynte oure enymys off theyre intendyd purpose .
ORIGIN1,270.041.780

AUTHOR:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:_:1491:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_041:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryttyn with the hand of your lovyng master Henry , R. To My Lorde
Cardinall . ORIGIN1,270.041.781

<Q_OR1_A_1520S_FN_MYTUDOR> <L_ORIGIN1_042> <A_MARY_TUDOR>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1496> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VIII>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1491>

<P_304>

{ED:LETTER_MARY_THE_FRENCH_QUEEN_TO_HER_BROTHER_K._HEN._VIII=TH=.
}

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most derest and best belowyd brother I humbly recommend vn to yowr
grace . ORIGIN1,304.042.782

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir so yt tys that I have bene very seke and eke atons for the wyche I
was fayne to sende for Master Peter the fesysyon for to have hoplen me
of the dessays that I haue . ORIGIN1,304.042.783

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbe yt I am rathar wors than better . Were for I trowst showrly to
come vp to Londone with my Lord . ORIGIN1,304.042.784

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For and yf I shold tary here I am sowr I shold never asspeare the
sekenys that I haue . Wer for , Sir , I wolde be the gladther a grete
dele to com thether , by cawse I wold be glad to se yowr grace , the
wyche I do thyncke long for to do ; ORIGIN1,304.042.785

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue bene a grete wyle out of yowr syte : ORIGIN1,304.042.786

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now I thowst I shal not be so long agene : ORIGIN1,304.042.787

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the syte of yowr grace ys to me the grettys comforte to me that may
be possybel . ORIGIN1,304.042.788

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No <P_305> more to your grace at thys tyme , bwt I pray God send yow
yowr hartys dessyr , and showrly to the syte of yow .
ORIGIN1,305.042.789

AUTHOR:MARY_TUDOR:FEMALE:SISTER:1496:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VIII:MALE:BROTHER:1491:_
LETTER:ORIGIN1_042:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by yowr lowyng suster Mary the Frenche Qu... ORIGIN1,305.042.790

<Q_OR1_A_1528_T_ABOLEYN> <L_ORIGIN1_043> <A_ANNE_BOLEYN>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1501?> <R_THOMAS_WOLSEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1473?>

<P_305>

{ED:LETTER_C._ANNE_BOLEYN_TO_CARDINAL_WOLSEY.}


AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Lord , in my most humblyst wyse that {in} my powuer hart can thynke
I do thanke your Grace for your kynd Letter , and for youer rych and
goodly present , the whyche I shall never be able to desarve wyth owt
your gret helpe , of the whyche I have hetherto hade so grete plente
that all the dayes of my lyfe I am moaste bownd $of all creators next
the Kyngs Grace <P_306> to love and serve your Grace , of the whyche I
besyche $you $never to dowte that ever I shalle vary frome this thought
as long $as $ony $brethe is in my body . ORIGIN1,306.043.791

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as tochyng your Graces troble with the Swet $I $thanke $ower Lorde
that them that I desyerd and prayed for ar $scapyd ,
ORIGIN1,306.043.792

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$and $that is the Kyng and you . Not doughthyng bot that God $has
$preservyd you bothe for grete cawsys knowen allonly of his $hygh
$wysdome . ORIGIN1,306.043.793

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for the commyng of the Legate , I desyer that moche ;
ORIGIN1,306.043.794

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$and $yf $it $be $Godds pleasor I pray hym to send this matter shortly
to $a $good $ende : ORIGIN1,306.043.795

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then I trust my Lord to recompence part of your $grete $panys $the
$whych I must requyer you in the meane tyme to excepte $my $good $wyll
$in $the stede of the power , the whyche must prosede partly $from $you
$as $ower $Lourd knoweth to whom I be syche to sende you $longe $lyfe
$with $continewance in honor . ORIGIN1,306.043.796

AUTHOR:ANNE_BOLEYN:FEMALE:_:1501?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_WOLSEY:MALE:_:1473?:55?
LETTER:ORIGIN1_043:E1:1528:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wrytten wyth the hande of her $that $is $most $bound $to $be $Your
$humble $and $obedyent $servante $Anne $Boleyn . ORIGIN1,306.043.797
