<B_PAGET>

<Q_PAG_C_1547_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_001> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_JOHN_DUDLEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1527?>

<P_11>

{ED:2._TO_JOHN_DUDLEY,_EARL_OF_WARWICK._DRAYTON._22_JULY,_1547.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
It may lyke your good lordship with my most harty commendacions and the
semblable to my good lady your wief to vnderstand that I am sory I haue
not the commodite to satisfye your desyre in your lettre sent to me by
this berar so sone as I woold , PAGET,11.001.1

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
for both my lord protectors grace is absent at London , and I here at
Draiton also absent from the court by reason of the meseles wherwith
all my house is troubled one after another . PAGET,11.001.2

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Nevertheless I think to se my lordes grace shortly and then to do what
lyith in me for the satisfacton of your lordships desyre which semyth
to me not vnreasonable . PAGET,11.001.3

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Touching your lordships diettes I sayd $asmoch $as {TEXT:asmochas} I
might conveniently . PAGET,11.001.4

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Wheras at the first there was appoynted but v markes which was to litle
and in dede v <font> li </font> had bene to the full howbeit your
lordship can wisely shape your cote by your clothe . PAGET,11.001.5

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Elys your man may tary sumtyme after your lordships departing with whom
it may lyke you to leave your commission PAGET,11.001.6

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and I will see if I can procure another to be by hym sent after you and
hym self also holpen in sum what to his contentacion PAGET,11.001.7

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
or eles I shal want of my wil . Wherof I $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} loth
eyther-2 in these thinges or any other wherin I might do you service or
pleasure as God knowyth who send you helth with increase of as moche
honor as I wish your lordship . PAGET,11.001.8

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
From my cotage at Drayton the xxij th of July 1547 . PAGET,11.001.9

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:20?
LETTER:PAGET_001:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships most assured to commaund William Paget PAGET,11.001.10

<Q_PAG_C_1547_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_002> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_12>

{ED:3._EDWARD_SEYMOUR,_DUKE_OF_SOMERSET._NO_PLACE._30_AUGUST,_1547}_ @

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
It maye lyke your grace to be aduertised that this daye after the
French embassade had ended with my lordes of the counsaill he desired
to speake with me aparte in my chambre , PAGET,12.002.11

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and there firste openinge vnto me what had passed lately betwene your
grace and him , concerninge the greate practise for Bulloygne , in
suche sorte poynt for poynt as {in}_P your grace declared to me and how
yow had ordeyned him to open to me what he shuld further do therein .
He sayd that the constable had willed him to saye vnto me with greate
request for contynuaunce of my good will to thamitie that he was
mervailous glad to here that your grace was so well enclyned to the
devise of suche meanes as might take awaye the suspicions that were
risen betwene bothe the princes in eche one towardes thothers doinges
and that if it shold lyke your grace to worke any thinge therein , youe
shuld fynd him such a mynistre , and of so syncere and good faith and
dealinge to bring the thinge to the desired effecte as your grace was
never matched with in a semblable case . Affirminge to me also that I
shuld fynd the lyke of him in the same practise , and that he wold be
gladde to mete with your grace with all his harte . PAGET,12.002.12

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Mary , before two such personages shuld convene , it shuld do well the
matter were first somewhat disgrossed to thintent there might firste
appere what successe were lyke to ensue leste not findinge thoverture
agreable either-4 to thone or thother and departinge without agrement
both dishonour might folowe to bothe the personages and also further
inconvenience . PAGET,12.002.13

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
And therfore seinge your grace thought yt good that thambassador shuld
open to him the communication which passed by your grace in that
behalfe he trusteth that to so godly a beginninge your grace will geve
a further perfection and signifie vnto him your opinion for the meanes
which youe thincke wold sette bothe your masters in establishement of
amitie voyd of all jelousie . PAGET,12.002.14

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
To this I declared what good wille your grace had borne always to
thamitie of Fraunce , and that I myselfe beringe no lesse affection had
in the kinges dayes that dead ys great experience therof .
PAGET,12.002.15

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
And here we felle into a longe disgression of the love that was betwene
oure late two masters and of there proceadinges together
PAGET,12.002.16

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and so returninge to oure purpose sayd that I doubted not but that your
grace wold endevoir your selfe muche to do what soever youe might with
preservacion of your duetie to the <P_13> kinges maiestie your master
that might confirme the amitie betwene his maiestie and the Frenche
kinge . PAGET,13.002.17

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Of any devise your grace had thought vpon I said I knewe not ,
PAGET,13.002.18

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
but rather loked <paren> I supposed </paren> the devise shuld procede
from them and that as he sayd before any metinge . PAGET,13.002.19

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
For that we , contentinge oure selfes with suche agrementes as was
passed , sought no newe , PAGET,13.002.20

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and they , sekinge quereles to breake that which they sayde at the
firste they wold observe , went aboute to have alteracions and newe
compositions . Wherfore I sayd they shuld do well before any suche
metinge shuld be to breake the matter and as they <paren> like woers
</paren> saye thaye wold have this so to tell vs howe we maye do it
with honour . PAGET,13.002.21

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
To this he aunswered after longe discourses of the conestables good
affection to this amitie and greate desire to lyve in peax and what
greate benefite shuld ensue to all Christendome yf all thinges were
well compounded . Repetinge also the procedinges of Montio whome the
conestable had nowe cut of PAGET,13.002.22

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and referred the hole matter to hys mayninge that the conestable
desired your grace seing youe had geven so good an entre and that he
persuaded him selfe that your grace had not entred the purpose to blere
his eyes and to wynne tyme but of an onely good will and godly
{ED:mynd_CROSSED_OUT} meaninge that it would like your grace to go
further , and to let him knowe your devise for the conducinge the same
to {ED:good_CROSSED_OUT} further effecte . And that I wold signifie
thus moche vnto your grace , and let him knowe your pleasure therin .
PAGET,13.002.23

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
I sayd that I could not thynke that your grace had alreadie devised any
thinge . PAGET,13.002.24

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
Howbeit I wold aduertise your grace , and of your aunswere advertise
him agayn accordingly . PAGET,13.002.25

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
I send to your grace herewith suche lettres as I have lately receaved
from Brewno and the governour of the merchauntes . PAGET,13.002.26

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
It may like your grace also tunderstand that we have devided our selfes
here into two bandes in suche sorte as in a scedule hereinclosed maye
appere to your grace and have appointed that one band shall wayte
contynually one weke and the other band the other weke and vpon
Sondayes to be alwais together at the courte whereof I thought good to
aduertise your grace PAGET,13.002.27

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
and havinge written thus farre both of this lettre and of the other
from the counsaill well nere at ende <paren> for that Master Secretary
is some what diseased </paren> . Themperors embassades secretary
arryved with me to aske audience for his master which was then accorded
by my lordes to be to morowe in the morning . <P_14> Wherfore your
grace $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} enformed more at large in the counsayles
lettre . PAGET,14.002.28

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
And thus &c PAGET,14.002.29

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
xxx <font> Augusti </font> . PAGET,14.002.30

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:42
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:47?
LETTER:PAGET_002:E1:1547:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,14.002.31

<Q_PAG_C_1548_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_003> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_17> {ED:7._TO_SOMERSET._NO_PLACE._NO_DATE_[JULY,_1548.]}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
To the Duke of Somerset when the overthrowe was of horsemen in Scotland
and when Sir Thomas Palmer was taken . PAGET,17.003.32

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
Sir , I beseche your grace moste humbly to pardon my departinge from
yow this night which all thinges consydered I shuld not have done .
PAGET,17.003.33

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
But I assure yowr grace my harte was and ys so greate for the losse of
Sir Thomas Palmer that I shuld rather have troubled your grace then
otherwise . PAGET,17.003.34

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
I loved the man in particuler frendshippe which had beginninge of his
aptenesse to serve the kinges maiestie . PAGET,17.003.35

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
But the losse of him for the service of his maiestie greveth me moste ,
and the rather for that I knowinge his nature , courage and his desire
to please youe , and to be suche as neded no spurre to serve .
PAGET,17.003.36

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
We have provoked him to muche forward with lettres accusinge his <P_18>
stillness , slackenes and slepinge , without doinge any thinge .
PAGET,18.003.37

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
But Sir , for Goddes sake let us never pricke the sturringe horse more
then nedeth from henceforthe PAGET,18.003.38

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and thincke , Sir , that yow supplie the place of a kinge
PAGET,18.003.39

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and to every wise manne every lettre , every word , every countenance
of yours , ys enoughe to cause the dulle horse to entre the fire , and
the quicke horse to be to busie . PAGET,18.003.40

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
Sir , yow are nowe not the Earle of Hertford , nor the Duke of Somerset
, but governour of the kinges parson , and protector of his realmes and
subiectes , PAGET,18.003.41

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and even so waye althinge in your selfe , PAGET,18.003.42

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and remember by tymes paste , how the wordes of a kinge or cardinall
might haue moved youe PAGET,18.003.43

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and so thincke yours move other men . PAGET,18.003.44

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
I beseche your grace to pardon me , PAGET,18.003.45

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
youe knowe my trewe harte and meaninge to your grace . PAGET,18.003.46

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
Sir , yt maye like youe to write vnto my Lorde Graye some wordes of
comeforte for him selfe , to whom in his lettre bemoninge him to your
grace , I remembre not that youe wrate any comfort for him
PAGET,18.003.47

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
and the man ys somewhat to be comforted with good wordes .
PAGET,18.003.48

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
I am lothe toffend your grace , glad to please youe , and desirous to
tell youe the trouth , because I beleue yow trust me . PAGET,18.003.49

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:43
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:48?
LETTER:PAGET_003:E1:1548:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,18.003.50

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_004> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_19>

{ED:12._TO_SOMERSET._WESTMINSTER._2_JANUARY,_1548-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Because the determinacion to renewe giftes of the newe yere was sodayn
I cold not prepare suche a newe yeres gifte for your grace <P_20> as
the fashion of the world required me to present to a personage of your
estate , PAGET,20.004.51

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and yet consideringe the favour of your grace to be speciall towardes
me , and my love the reciproque towardes youe , me thought it beste to
sende your grace thoughe no riche gyfte yet a token of my herte which
wishethe both this and all other yeres hereafter happie and luckye vnto
youe . PAGET,20.004.52

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
My token is this scedule here inclosed , wherein as in a glasse if your
grace will dayly loke , and by yt youe readye youe shall so well
apparell your selfe as eche man shall delight to behold youe .
PAGET,20.004.53

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I praye your grace taccepte this token in good parte , which very
hartie love and greate carefullnes of your graces well doinges hathe
moved me to send unto your grace to whome I wishe as well as I do to
myne owne soule . PAGET,20.004.54

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Westminster etc , W. P_NPR . PAGET,20.004.55

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The Scedule Delyberate maturely in all thinges . PAGET,20.004.56

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Execute quickely the delyberations . PAGET,20.004.57

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Do justice without respecte . PAGET,20.004.58

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Make assured and stayde wise men ministers vnder youe . PAGET,20.004.59

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mainteyne the ministers in their offices . PAGET,20.004.60

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Punishe the disobedient accordinge to their desertes . PAGET,20.004.61

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In the kinges causes geve commission in the kinges name .
PAGET,20.004.62

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Rewarde the kinges worthye servauntes liberally and quyckely .
PAGET,20.004.63

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Geve your owne to your owne , and the kinges to the kinges franckelie .
PAGET,20.004.64

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Dispatche suters shortelye . PAGET,20.004.65

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Be affable to the good , and sterne to the evell . PAGET,20.004.66

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Folowe aduise in counsaile . PAGET,20.004.67

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Take fee or rewarde of the kinge onelie . PAGET,20.004.68

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Kepe your ministres about youe vncorrupte . PAGET,20.004.69

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thus God will prosper yow , the kinge favour youe , and all men love
youe . PAGET,20.004.70

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_004:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,20.004.71

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_005> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_20>

{ED:13._TO_SOMERSET._MY_CHAMBER._24_JANUARY,_1548-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , I beseche your grace to calle to remembraunce how that youe have
bene moved diuerse tymes , not onelie by me but also by sondry others
of the counsaill to send to discipher thempereur which your grace hath
consented to be a thinge necessarye and yet haue semed to differ yt for
want of good occasion and oportunitie to put the same in vre .
PAGET,20.005.72

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Now Sir , vpon thys chaunce of staye of your shyppes , and also of this
your proceadinges with thadmirall beside your determinacions for the
yere to come youe haue so good occasion as youe shall never have bettre
. PAGET,20.005.73

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , occasion ys bawld behind , PAGET,20.005.74

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
yf youe take not hold before , youe shall not after , when your grace
wold . PAGET,20.005.75

<P_21>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For Goddes sake , Sir , followe thinges when tyme requireth and whiles
tyme serveth . PAGET,21.005.76

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I see your grace myche trobled , for the which I am sorye ,
PAGET,21.005.77

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therfore I amongest others thincke yt my duetie to put your grace
in remembraunce of things necessary to be done , besechinge your grace
when yow are put in remembraunce of them to waye whether the thinges be
mete to be done or no , and if youe thincke them so mete , then to
folowe the remembraunces and do the same without delaye , or at the
leste not to forgette an other tyme that your pore frendes haue
discharged their dueties towardes youe for your better procedinge in
the kinges maiestes service . PAGET,21.005.78

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
God send your grace to do as well as I wishe unto your grace .
PAGET,21.005.79

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_005:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From my chambre &c. W. P_NPR . PAGET,21.005.80

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_006> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_22>

{ED:16._TO_SOMERSET._THE_COURT._2_FEBRUARY,_1548-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , my very duetie to God the kinge and the realme , knytte with a
moste perfect and sincere love to your grace , moveth me so myche that
I can not forbeare to wryte to your grace my conscience and poore
opinion for your procedinges at this tyme , besechinge your grace moste
humbly and with all my harte , and for the very selfe same thinges sake
that maketh me thus to write , to waye and ponder my wrytinge agayne
and agayn ; PAGET,22.006.81

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and make me not to be a Cassandra , that is to saie , one that told the
trouthe of daungers before and was not beleved , PAGET,22.006.82

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
sory wold I be to lyve to be suche a one . PAGET,22.006.83

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But your grace maye do myche that I be not such a one . PAGET,22.006.84

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And now , Sir , lyfte vp , lyfte vp the eyes of your herte ,
PAGET,22.006.85

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and loke in what termes and in what compases yow stande ,
PAGET,22.006.86

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and loke not nere at hande onely but also aloofe and farre of
PAGET,22.006.87

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and to this your grace muste vse bothe your wisedome and foresighte ;
PAGET,22.006.88

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and where force will not serve or is not hable , there to vse wisedome
and pollicie . PAGET,22.006.89

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Theffectes thereof as they seme to be uncertayne <paren> and so they be
indede </paren> for no man knoweth the sequele of his advise or
counsayll certaynly . So yet the consideracion and conference of
thinges paste of theim , that are to come geveth a light of lykelyhod
PAGET,22.006.90

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and maketh a reason for some <P_23> knowledge for the sequele of that
hereafter which we do presently debate , PAGET,23.006.91

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and almoste by none other meanes are we able to judge of thinges to
come . PAGET,23.006.92

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
First your grace seith youe are in playne warre with the Scottes , and
even ready to enter the same with the French . PAGET,23.006.93

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
There is cause to doubte themperour abrode and lykewyse some of your
owne at home , PAGET,23.006.94

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
this your grace seith at hand . PAGET,23.006.95

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Nowe maye it please your grace to loke farre from yow . I meane what
will happen hereof if foresighte be not vsed : PAGET,23.006.96

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , daungier wonderfull to the kinges maieste ; certayn and
vndoubted ruyne and destruction to the hole realme and to your selfe
ioyned with an infamy . PAGET,23.006.97

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What reamedye ? PAGET,23.006.98

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Let vs see what our force ys . PAGET,23.006.99

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Furste we have no money at all to speake of in a kinges case .
PAGET,23.006.100

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , but youe saye we shall nowe have yt of the subiectes .
PAGET,23.006.101

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But if thempereur jarre with youe there can be none levied .
PAGET,23.006.102

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For the merchaunt shall haue no vent , PAGET,23.006.103

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
the clothier shall haue no vent , nor your shepemaster no vent of his
wolle . PAGET,23.006.104

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , it maye be sayd , PAGET,23.006.105

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
yet will every trewe man in case of nede helpe with all that he hath
for defence of the realme . PAGET,23.006.106

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I knowe no man but trewe . PAGET,23.006.107

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But yet I thincke all men though they be trewe , be not throughly wise
and able to vnderstand and waye his duetie , PAGET,23.006.108

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and that which semeth to one man well , maye seme to an other evell .
PAGET,23.006.109

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But lette vs yet consydre whether <paren> that if all men at home wold
consente in one </paren> our force were of yt selfe without helpe from
other partes sufficient to withstand Scotland , Fraunce , thempereur
and the Romyshe , PAGET,23.006.110

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but if thempereur do square with vs , yt is good to se whether here at
home some thinckinge yt to be for religion , will peraduenture thincke
yt also their duetie for suerty of the kinge and the realme to take his
parte , PAGET,23.006.111

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and then your force at home ys to weake , PAGET,23.006.112

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and abroad consider your grace what helpe youe shall have .
PAGET,23.006.113

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
If youe saye in Almayne , I aske from whome there . PAGET,23.006.114

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The Langrave Fredericke of Saxone , the duke of Wirtemberge , the
countie Palantyne , be as prisoners to thempereur , PAGET,23.006.115

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Morice of Saxony , the dukes of Bauiere and marques of Brandenburge be
firmelie knit with thempereur , PAGET,23.006.116

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so is also Denmarke . PAGET,23.006.117

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Pruse ys pore . PAGET,23.006.118

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The cities marytine be pore and afrayd , PAGET,23.006.119

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and the kinge of Poole ys to farre of , and but newlie come into his
kingedome , and not yet fully established . PAGET,23.006.120

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
If yt be said yet , for religion they will joyne with youe , I answere
that thoughe the kinge of Poole be farre of , and therfore <paren>
thoughe he had his kingdome vnited with hym wholly , as he hath not ,
but is therin in the same case and worse then we be , and hath also the
Muscovites at his backe to troble him daylye </paren> can do us no good
at all . PAGET,23.006.121

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Yet myght we for religions sake make a good partie with some of
thalmayns yf we had good store of money , without the which they <P_24>
neyther wyll <paren> and that experience of tymes paste teacheth vs
when they were in felicitie </paren> nor nowe are able for their
pouertie and infelicitie . PAGET,24.006.122

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And though there were such a league for religion , yet your grace
knoweth that thempereur can devise some other cause to falle out
<paren> when he lyste </paren> to stoppe theyr mouthes abrode ,
PAGET,24.006.123

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and nevertheles some here at home will thincke yt to be <paren> and in
dede their is none other cause </paren> for cause of religion .
PAGET,24.006.124

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
All which thinges layde together I conclude to my symple vnderstandinge
<paren> remyttinge the same to the better judgement of your grace
</paren> youe are not able with your owne force onely , nor with your
owne force nor any other that youe can have abrode , withstand the
imminent and present daungiers . PAGET,24.006.125

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What then saythe your grace all in desperacion ? PAGET,24.006.126

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Nay , by St. Mary , Sir , PAGET,24.006.127

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but where strength fayleth assaye what arte wyll do , PAGET,24.006.128

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and remembre the old sayenge , ' It ys evill havinge of a lordes harte
and a beggers purse togethers ' , PAGET,24.006.129

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and beware of the old sayenge , ' Yt is good beatinge of a proude horse
' . PAGET,24.006.130

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Wherfore me thought yesternight your grace beganne to devise well to
fayne frendeshippe with thempereur , to seme to yeld to hym , to dalye
withe hym , to wynne tyme of hym , by puttynge him in hope that youe
will geve eare to hym , and youe haue good meanes to do yt yet ,
PAGET,24.006.131

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for the thinges that hetherto youe have passed be but formes and
facions of service and mynistracion of the sacramentes which ys and
hath bene dyverse in dyverse {ED:facions_CROSSED_OUT} places in Christ
churche and ordered and altered as pleaseth the governours . So as
there ys no cause why thempereur shold be in dede offended with this ,
yf the matter were well debated with hym . PAGET,24.006.132

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And therfore haue youe hereby <paren> yf youe staie goinge further
</paren> good meanes to practyse with hym , and to enduce hym to
thincke that as youe myght alter these ceremonyes from their former
facion to this they be nowe at , so he maye fortune to enduce youe to
alter them from this facion to that they were at before ,
PAGET,24.006.133

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and in the handelinge of this matter , tyme will passe yf yt be well
handeled , PAGET,24.006.134

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and tyme bryngeth forthe many thinges . PAGET,24.006.135

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But by this meane <paren> which is but one </paren> and some other
devises yt is possible to wynne a respyte to brethe and to make your
selfe hable after to runne the better . PAGET,24.006.136

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It ys now onely arte , PAGET,24.006.137

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
pollycie and practise must helpe PAGET,24.006.138

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
<paren> for these be the meanes in myne opynion </paren> that God will
nowe vse for our helpe . PAGET,24.006.139

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For as yt is trewe that sekinge fyrst the kingdome of God he wyll
furnishe vs of all thinges , so yt is trewe that sithens the beginninge
yt hathe pleased God to do his thinges by meanes , PAGET,24.006.140

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and the olde proverbe ys not for nought which sayeth , ' Youe maie lye
longe ynough in the dytche or God will helpe youe yf youe helpe not
your selfe ' . PAGET,24.006.141

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As sone as the parliament ys done , sende some notable man Northeward ,
an other into the Marches , an other into Kente , an other into <P_25>
Suffolk and Norffolk , an other for Sussex and Wyllshyre , an other
into the Weste , or ells some speciall gentleman to be spoken with all
that shall reside in Cornewayle and Deuonshire . PAGET,25.006.142

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Let them be well enformed before their goinges in to the countreys of
your advise , bothe for the staye of their countreys , and also for the
levienge of the reliefe . PAGET,25.006.143

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Let proclamations be sente forthe , declaringe and settinge forthe the
gratuities the kinge gevith nowe to his subiectes for their kindenes in
releasinge the purveyours and the reste of the thinges .
PAGET,25.006.144

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sende forthe proclamations to staie the churche plate and belles , also
commission to gentlemen for that purpose . Commissions also for musters
, commaundementes also for the beakons , PAGET,25.006.145

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
appoint Sir Edward Wotton <paren> yf he be able to lie at London as I
thincke he be aswell as at his house </paren> and Sir Walter Myldemaye
to assyste for the money matters . PAGET,25.006.146

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Do as myche as in your grace shall lye after the pardon to se the lawes
executed without remission except it be for a very great consideracion
. PAGET,25.006.147

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For so shall youe bringe in agayn obedience which nowe ys cleane gone ,
PAGET,25.006.148

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therby your grace $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} feared in the service of
the kinge , PAGET,25.006.149

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
the noblemen shall be regarded , and everie other man in his place
abrode in the world reputed as he ought to be , wherby quyet shall
ensue amonge oure selfes , PAGET,25.006.150

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and takinge all disputacions from vs other then by the lawes ys
apointed or permytted , we shall no more saie thow papist and thoue
heretique , PAGET,25.006.151

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for your lawe the laste yere for the sacrament , and this yere for the
ceremonies will helpe moche the matter yf they be well executed .
PAGET,25.006.152

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I maye seme to your grace bothe tedious and folyshe , PAGET,25.006.153

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but I beseche your grace to have respecte to the dewtie and love that
moveth me thus to do , and for my sake and at myne humble requeste to
loke sometyme vpon the glasse I sente your grace which can do youe no
hurte yf it shall please youe to vse yt . PAGET,25.006.154

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus I leave besechinge the lyvinge God to directe your graces
herte to do all thinges for his glorye , the honour of the kinges
maieste and of your selfe , and to the benefite of the realme .
PAGET,25.006.155

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From the courte &c. PAGET,25.006.156

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_006:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,25.006.157

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_007> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_26>

{ED:19._TO_SOMERSET._THE_COURT._12_MARCH,_1548-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , I beseche your grace moste humbly for Goddes sake to ende the
parliament to thintent yow maye provide for your owtwarde thinges in
tyme , wherof youe haue great nede , and so myche as I never sawe in my
tyme . PAGET,26.007.158

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
All the noble men and others do desire yt , PAGET,26.007.159

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and for my parte I thincke yt had bene beste yf it had bene ended afore
Christmas , PAGET,26.007.160

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for then your grace shulde haue had leasure in the dedde tyme of the
yere <paren> which is nowe paste in makinge actes not so necessarye ,
but they might haue bene differred till a more quiet <P_27> tyme
</paren> to provide for the thinges that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
nedefull in sommer . PAGET,27.007.161

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
If your forrayne affayres shuld quayle , I meane in the northe and at
Bulloygne , it wold be suche a corseye bothe-1 to your grace and your
pore frendes , and peraduenture suche a daungier to all the rest , as
my harte bledes to thincke vpon , PAGET,27.007.162

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and vndoubtedly wold touche your graces credyt at home and the credyte
of all the rest of the counsayle . PAGET,27.007.163

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
If your grace aske what remedie , in as myche as a trobled wit can saye
, I answere that furst your grace cause out of hand to ende the
parliament , which bothe the houses saye , stayes onely vpon your
graces pleasure . PAGET,27.007.164

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Next appoint freshe men to the money matters , PAGET,27.007.165

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for if youe do not your grace shall shortely se great daungier followe
. PAGET,27.007.166

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Let them certaynely make of the mynte , of the sales , of the
admyralles , of Sheringtons money and plate , and of the kinges plate
comynge to the Tower , all the money they can possiblye , and make what
shyfte they can devise for more , by which I thincke yf wise men maye
haue the handelinge , maye be made fourty thousand powndes .
PAGET,27.007.167

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And in this case , Sir , and also for the sendinge of a speciall man
northewardes your grace must not sticke to vse aucthoritie , thoughe
some men will not peraduenture specially for the money matters be beste
contented . PAGET,27.007.168

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But for Goddes sake , Sir , spare no man so the kinge maye be well
served , PAGET,27.007.169

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and appointe men to serve that can serve what soeuer this man or that
man abrode saye . PAGET,27.007.170

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your grace knowes myne opinion already which of bounden duetie to the
kinges maieste I haue already ere this tyme declared to your grace :
PAGET,27.007.171

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master Wotton and Master Myldemaye for money matters , PAGET,27.007.172

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and yf your graces pleasure were to requyre my lorde of Southampton to
take paynes therin youe might slepe the quietlier ; PAGET,27.007.173

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
my lorde greate master might take charge of victualles to occupie him
withall ; PAGET,27.007.174

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
my lorde of Warwicke into the northe as sone as might be possible ;
PAGET,27.007.175

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
my lorde pryvy seal in to the weste , who havinge helpe semes not to
myslyke yt . PAGET,27.007.176

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Let so mych money be sent to Bulloigne as maie be gotten conveniently ,
and the lyke into the northe PAGET,27.007.177

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
<paren> and if your graces pleasour be to send me any whither either to
the north </paren> {ED:TEXT_IN_BRACKETS_FROM_ANOTHER_MS} , east west or
south , your grace shall fynde me as readye or readier then the
chauncelour of thaugmentacions , PAGET,27.007.178

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and vntill now I beleved {ED:my_beloved_CROSSED_OUT} my ladies grace
had thought the same . PAGET,27.007.179

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The lyvinge God sende youe bothe as well to do as I wishe to my selfe .
PAGET,27.007.180

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From the courte &c . PAGET,27.007.181

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_007:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,27.007.182

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_008> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_28>

{ED:20._TO_SOMERSET._DRAYTON._21_MARCH,_1548-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , sithens yt pleased your grace to determyne your pleasure vnto me
yesterday seuenyght , consernynge my suite to your grace and the
parliament , I haue bene enformed that your grace hath conceaved some
displeasure towardes me for certaine communication the which hath bene
reported to your grace of my mouth touchinge the same matter . Wherfore
presuminge vpon your graces goodnesse I haue thought good taduertise
your grace , that the failinge of my suyte did not so myche greve me ,
as yt did to se your grace at that tyme troubled on two sydes , that is
to saie beinge lothe to offende your pore frende , and beinge pressed
to satisfie other folkes , in respecte wherof vnfainedly I overcame
myne owne passion , and as I had bene a suyter in myne owne cause , so
<paren> yf your grace be pleased to calle to remembraunce </paren> I
sued to your grace to let the matter die . PAGET,28.008.183

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , Sir , to confesse to your grace the very truthe , I beleved vpon
information geven to me therin , that my ladyes grace had bene the
suyter against me , which <paren> so God helpe me </paren> went to my
harte like a dagger . PAGET,28.008.184

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For next to your grace vnder the kinges maieste , I reposed my chefest
truste of frendship in her grace , PAGET,28.008.185

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and vpon knowledge and cleretie of myne owne conscience how myche I
honoured and loved youe bothe even with all my harte , I claymed in my
harte of very right a love from youe bothe agayne . PAGET,28.008.186

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For of one thinge I am suer , that although many love your grace , I
thincke of very frendeshippe , and many beare your grace a love in
respecte of your office ; yet no man ever hath desired the honour , the
vertue , the quietnes of an other , more then I have and do your graces
, nor never man toke more care and thought for the well doinge of an
other manne , then I haue and do for your grace , PAGET,28.008.187

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
God ys judge betwene your grace and me therin , which I promysse your
grace procedith of duetie , because of your place of service to the
kinges maieste and the realme , and of very love to your person which
colde not cease , nor can not , though your office ceased .
PAGET,28.008.188

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Now , Sir , when I conceaved that her grace was against my suyte and
never voutchesaved to calle me to the reckeninge , it greved me
wonderfully . PAGET,28.008.189

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And I thought there were some prickers forwarde provoked by envye .
Havinge herde before that some sayde otherwise of me then I deserved ,
PAGET,28.008.190

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and herevpon came yt that I sayde , I wold forbeare to shewe my selfe
so forwarde in counsaill as I had done before , addinge therwithall
that yet neverthelesse as I wolde take awaye the cause of envie , so
wold I do as your grace wolde commaunde me , and withdrawe no piece of
my duetie neyther to the kinges maieste , <P_29> ne to your grace ,
PAGET,29.008.191

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and thus I sayed for speakinge in counsayll , PAGET,29.008.192

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but owt of counsaill I sayde I wolde <paren> yf your grace pleased to
knowe myne opinion in any matter </paren> saie alwayes franckely to
your grace what I thought . PAGET,29.008.193

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thys was the somme of my sayenge , wherwith your grace hath no iust
cause to be offended PAGET,29.008.194

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I trust yow are not . PAGET,29.008.195

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sythens which tyme I have herde from my ladyes grace that vndoubtedly
she stirred the matter never to your grace , a thinge to my great
reioysinge , and an accusacion of my selfe to be in greate faulte for
mistrustinge assured favour and frendeshippe without cause .
PAGET,29.008.196

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But herevpon , Sir , I sawe that suche as envied me hadde bene able to
prevaile with your grace against me , gevinge suche enformation to your
grace as I am sure they were not hable to justefie , PAGET,29.008.197

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so yt appeared the daye of the prorogation of the parliament , when
in the morninge I had shewed them the statute boke in your graces
galerye havinge the chefe justice on my parte in the presence of Master
Secretarye Smythe whervpon I was sorye , that when informacion was
geven to your grace agaynste me yt had not lyked your grace to have
herde me in the prescence of the informers and thought your grace not
to haue bene so good lorde to me , as I persuaded my selfe youe had
bene ; which thinge proceadinge vpon a greater presumption of your
favour towardes me then became me to conceave I beseche your grace to
pardon me , and to contynewe to me good lorde , as to him that for
dewtie and love sake onely and for none other respecte honor and love
from the bottome of my harte yow and all yours , as God can testifie
who sende your grace aswell to do as myne owne sowle . PAGET,29.008.198

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Drayton &c. PAGET,29.008.199

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_008:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,29.008.200

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_009> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_29>

{ED:21._TO_SOMERSET._THE_COURT._17_APRIL,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , my duetie to the kinges maieste and the realme and my love to
your grace vpon whom restethe the greatest parte of the burthen in the
gouernement vnder the kinge causeth me to put your grace in
remembraunce of such matiers as musinge <paren> sythens your graces
departure hence </paren> of the state of the world I haue thought good
to enforme your grace of . PAGET,29.009.201

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The one is conteyned in certayn questions grounded vpon certayne
occasions expressed before the said questions in a paper here enclosed
, which questions in my poore opinion <P_29> <paren> vnder correction
of your grace </paren> were good to be proponed to the hole counsayll ,
to be with some deliberacion considered , debated and resolued vpon .
PAGET,29.009.202

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The other matter ys expressed in certayne articles conteyninge the
state of this realme , and of the reste with whom we have to do , which
your grace maie <paren> yf it so shall like youe </paren> reserve to
yourselfe . PAGET,29.009.203

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
By them your grace will peraduenture thincke that I put all in despayre
and do make the worste of our owne and the best of all oure enemies
thinges . PAGET,29.009.204

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well , Sir , eyther those articles be trewe or false . PAGET,29.009.205

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Yf they be false I am gladde I am deceaved in the knowledge and
iudgement of thinges . PAGET,29.009.206

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But if they be trewe your grace knoweth whither their be cause of
dispayre or no . PAGET,29.009.207

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And to confesse to your grace the very truthe knowinge by experience
that they be for the moste parte or rather all trewe , I am surely in
wonderfull perplexitie how we shall be able to do all thinges for the
kinges honour in suche sorte as {in}_P were expedient .
PAGET,29.009.208

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I knowe your grace will saye <paren> and I have not tyll nowe misliked
yt </paren> yet let vs sette a good countenaunce of yt .
PAGET,29.009.209

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But , Sir , our countenaunce ys so well knowen with the reste of owre
estate abrode to all the worlde , as the matter will not lenger be
holden vp with a countenaunce . PAGET,29.009.210

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And therfore for Goddes sake in tyme devise for remedie . In which
parte when your grace shall commaund me eyther in open counsaill , or
in this sorte I will declare myne opinion to your grace throughlie and
vnfaynedly nothinge doubtinge of your graces good acceptacion of the
same as procedinge from one that wisheth youe as well to do as he dothe
to his owne harte PAGET,29.009.211

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and that God knowethe who preserve your grace . PAGET,29.009.212

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From the courte &c. PAGET,29.009.213

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_009:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,29.009.214

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_010> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_33>

{ED:25._[TO_SOMERSET.]_BRUSSELS._23_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_010:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It maye like your grace tunderstande that I haue receaved your graces
and others of the counsailles lettres wherein amonges other thinges
tooching the state of Scotlande it may appeare that the Frenche king
reserueth his greatest force together at home in <P_34> expectacion of
thempereurs deathe : willing me to sett the same furthe which and the
Countie Rangonas mattier I will not faile to do as occasion and
oportunitie shall serue for either of them accordingly .
PAGET,34.010.215

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_010:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And forbecause your grace shall perceave by our comen lettres at this
presente our procedinges here I omitt to trooble your grace any further
, only praying youe most humbly that of suche thinges as I haue writen
to Master Secretarie to knowe your graces pleasour in , I maye be with
spede and certainly aduertised from your grace to thende I maye procede
thereaftre , and further as your grace shall considre the case to
require the same . PAGET,34.010.216

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_010:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus beseching almyghty God to preserve your grace and send you
aswell to do as I wishe to your grace I surcease to moleste you any
lenger . PAGET,34.010.217

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_010:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Bruseles the xxiijth of June at mydnight 1549 . PAGET,34.010.218

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_010:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your graces most humbly and hartely at commaundement William Paget
PAGET,34.010.219

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_011> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1506>

<P_34>

{ED:26._[TO_SIR_WILLIAM_PETRE.]_BRUSSELS._23_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary , after my most harty commendacions I thank you for
thaduertisementes in your last lettre PAGET,34.011.220

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and forbicause by our comyng lettre it shall appere vnto you how our
matters go here I forbeare to write of them . PAGET,34.011.221

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
By yours I see that the French make no hast of the meting for that you
hauyng vppon theyr request named commissioners they delaye the namyng
of theyrs , PAGET,34.011.222

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I lyke not the sending for out of Scotland of such personages as be
in authorite ther seying the sende not only Thermes thither <paren>
which might be construed well inowgh </paren> but also that he caryith
with him his wief which pretendith no short departure from Scotland ,
and also is accompanyed of men lernid in the law personages syrving for
the gouernement of estate which hath an apparance of contynaunce .
PAGET,34.011.223

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
On the other side these men here sauour that I haue further to say to
them toching Fraunce , for that theyr ambassador there hath bene
enformed of that part of my charge as well as of the rest which
concernyth a ioynt invasion . PAGET,34.011.224

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And goyng forward in the other partye toching the perpetual establish
{ED:ment} of the old treaty will presse the burstyng out of the same .
PAGET,34.011.225

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Now one part of myn instructons is to forbeare the vtterance of that
poynte til I heare how the commissioners that met with the French do
procede in theyr busynes , which I doubt how it can be put of so long
here . Wherfor I requyre you to let me be aduertised <P_35> imediatly
wheder I shall procede also to open the forsayd poynt of ioynt enemytie
or forbeare til further knoweledge of your procedinges with Fraunce and
if I shall forbeare to open it <paren> which I feare $will $be
{TEXT:wilbe} hard to do </paren> then to aduertise me also how I shall
procede to put of the same . PAGET,35.011.226

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Also in case they agre to the ratificacon of the treaty by the kinges
maieste and the prynce with obligacion in the same that within a tyme
the contreys on both sides shall confyrme the same I requyre to be
instructed within what tyme the sayd confyrmacion of the contryes
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} made , and the names of such contreys of
themperors as my lordes grace will to confyrme . PAGET,35.011.227

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Also if Bullen cum in to defence with the isles of Aldeney and Silley ,
to instruct me of my lordes graces pleasyr what places $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} accepted in to defence in reciproke for themperors part .
PAGET,35.011.228

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Also to be instructed in the matter of mariage what is the resolute
dote the kinges maieste shall offer with the Lady Mary . When the same
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} payd ; and what dower we shall demande in
degrees after the rates of degres in our offres , for the which you
shall do well to visit the treatyes with the King Lewes for the mariage
of the late French quene the king our masters aunte . PAGET,35.011.229

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Also if I shall enter to treate a ioynt enemitie to send me
instructions of my lordes graces pleasyr for the particuler poyntes .
In what forme we shall ioyn that is to say wheder we $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} enemye to enemye against almen or against such men as you
will name for all causes and querelles or for such certain as you will
appoynt and wheder you will appoynt with what nomber {with}_P the
querel $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} made <paren> as it is alredy in the
treaty with viij=m= </paren> or generally with how few soever {with}_P
the querel be made . Also what you will requyr themperor to do , vppon
what part both-8 by land and see ; and with what nombres ; and lykewise
what and where you will offre for the reciproque . PAGET,35.011.230

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
These thinges I haue thought vppon ; wherin I requyre you ernestly to
let me know with spede my lordes pleasyr and that certainly and also of
any other thing that his grace there shall consider in these matters
mete to be sent vnto me , PAGET,35.011.231

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for they be of gret importance PAGET,35.011.232

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I haue to do here though not with many not passing thre yet gret
wisemen PAGET,35.011.233

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I haue no speciall instructions for the same . PAGET,35.011.234

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I pray you also to let vs know from tyme to tyme of your procedinges
both-1 with Fraunce and Scotland . Wherby we $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
the abler to furder the kinges maiestes affayres here .
PAGET,35.011.235

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus I byd you hartely well to fair PAGET,35.011.236

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
from Bruselles the xxiij th of June at nyght 1549 . PAGET,35.011.237

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your very assured frend William Paget PAGET,35.011.238

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I pray you remembre to send me a quyck depeche for these folkes here
PAGET,35.011.239

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_011:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
as they vse no delayes so they looke for redy answeres .
PAGET,35.011.240

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET&> <L_PAGET_012> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_36>

{ED:27._WILLIAM_PAGET_AND_SIR_PHILIP_HOBY_TO_[SOMERSET]._BRUSSELS._
24_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It may like your grace after the remembraunce of our most humble
dueties to vnderstande that I the comptroller being arryved here at
Brussels on Wedinsday last the xixth of this instant and having that
night and the morowe folowing partely to rest myself and chiefly to
conferre the circumstance of my commission with Master Hobby stayed
from demaunding of audience Fridaye in the morning I sent vnto Granvele
gyving him tunderstande that I was cum hither sent by the king my
master to open on his maiestes behalf certain thinges vnto thempereur
and therefore I requyred him both to giue his maieste knoweledge therof
and taduertise me whenne his pleasyr shuld be to giue me audience ,
which with many faire woordes and offres he promised to do imediately .
PAGET,36.012.241

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The same after none Monsieur de Chantoney Granveles sonne cam to visite
me both on thempereurs and his fathers behalf who after sum
entretemement and gentle offres for the furniture of any thing that I
lacked , shewed me that thempereur being vntil that tyme vnwitting of
my cuming had sent him to welcum me , being sory as he said that he had
not sent soner to me , and making gret excuse for the same required me
to repose myself after my travaill vntil he might haue commodite to
giue me audience which he said shuld be very shortely .
PAGET,36.012.242

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But bicaus I wold not seme to forget to put him in remembraunce therof
I tooke occasion the same night to sende eftsones to Granvele both to
giue him thankes for his sons visitation and therewithall to put him in
minde of myn audience whenne oportunite shuld serve which neuertheles I
referred to thempereurs good commodite . PAGET,36.012.243

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
He returned me aunswer with many gentle woordes that as thempereur
being empeched about certain maters of Spayn had not that afternone
commodite to here me so was he sure that his maieste minded the day
folowing to send for me till when he desyred me to haue pacience .
PAGET,36.012.244

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The next morning Monsieur Darras neither-1 by thempereur nor his
fathers commaundement but of himself <paren> as he said </paren> moved
by the zeale that his father he and all their house beare vnto the
kinges maieste and for his sake vnto his ministres cam to <P_37> visite
and welcum me offring himself most redy to shewe me all the pleasyr
that lyeth in him . PAGET,37.012.245

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Within twoo howres after Monsieur de Bossu le grand esquier well
accompanied with diuers gentlemen of the courte cam by thempereurs
commaundement to convoye vs to the courte to the empereurs presence .
PAGET,37.012.246

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Hereof haue we thought good taduertise your grace that ye maye thereby
perceiue the sort of owr enterteinement hitherto : PAGET,37.012.247

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And now , Syr , to the purpose at our cumming to thempereur I , the
said comptroller , after the deliuery of my lettres with the kinges
maiestes most harty commendacions and your graces and sum other good
woordes of office passed to and fro on both sydes concerning the good
will and affection that the king my master and your grace beare
towardes the contynuance of thamitie and encreace of the same
persuading the like at his hande and remembring thold contynued
freendeship that hath long sithens bene betwene both their houses and
that the commodite of thone dependeth of the welth and saufgarde of
thother , his good estate and condition being the kinges maieste and
likewise the kinges suretie and prosperite to be not a litle to his
benifite . I was I said sent by the kinges maieste and your grace
chiefly to travaill to establishe and confirme this amite by such
meanes as shuld be thought good on both the partes and the rather at
this tyme for that the prince his sonne was nowe here in these low
cuntreys to whom as we thought he minded to leave his cuntreis and
dominione so we doubted not also but he woold make him herities of his
amites and alliaunces of the which we <paren> I said </paren> reputed
ourselfes to be the chiefest and most assured . PAGET,37.012.248

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
A second cause of my cumming was <paren> I said </paren> to communicate
vnto him the state of the kinges affaires with the Scottes our commun
ennemies and also the French his dissimuled freendes and our secret
ennemies PAGET,37.012.249

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and the third was to treate if he thought so good vpon a mater of
mariage which chaunced to cum in communication vpon occasion of
deuising wayes for thencreace and augmentacion of this amitie .
PAGET,37.012.250

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And to descende to more particularites I said that touching the furst
part your grace had deuised with the counsaill vpon meane to haue it
take effect which I thought was so reasonnable as his maieste wold
embrace orels shewe to vs sum other waye better for the purpose and
more commodious for both realmes . PAGET,37.012.251

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
There was a treaty <paren> I said </paren> made betwene his maieste and
the late king of famous memorye which they both I was sure ment to haue
perpetuel and for that effect caused certain woordes to be couched
therin PAGET,37.012.252

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and albeit we doubt not but that both he for his part wold fermely
observe the same and that the kinge and your grace for the kinges parte
minded noles yet consydering that the prince $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
well bind his successours <P_38> and their cuntreis without their
expres consent to the same as it might appere by a treatie made betwen
vs and Fraunce which having a clause to be made perpetuel and we
vnmindfull to requyre the confirmation therof was layd vnto us by the
French ambassadours before Monsieur Darras , Monsieur de Courcieres and
Chapuis at our being to gidre at Callays and we vnable taunswer thereto
your grace therefore had thought most convenient aswel for his
posterite as the kinges to set furth this ouerture that the king and
the prince with such cuntries on both sydes as shuld take commodite by
this treatie shuld confirme and ratifie the same and that before this
ratification which the soner it wer done wer the better the treaty
shuld be revisited to see howe one of vs vnderstandeth an other therin
and in the debating therof to considre wheder any thing shuld be
thought mete to be added that may be beneficial to both parties .
PAGET,38.012.253

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Here I staying a while his maieste aunswered me with very gentle
woordes that he was right glad to perceiue the good towardnes shewed on
the king his good brothers and your graces behalf towardes the
conservacion of this amite which for his part he doth most ernestly
desyre to enterteyn , PAGET,38.012.254

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and likeas he did take King Henry theight in his lief tyme in place of
his good brother and father having at sundry tymes experienced of his
firme and stedfast freendship towardes him . So he now for his parte
will not <paren> he saith </paren> faile to declare himself in all
thinges most redy to requite the same towardes the king my master whom
he reputeth as another his sonne PAGET,38.012.255

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and is no les mindefull and desyrous of his maiestes furtheraunce and
well proceding thenne of his own , which he affirmed $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} well declared whensoever oportunite shall serve .
PAGET,38.012.256

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And to thende he might more fully perceiue the kinges maiestes and your
graces meaning herin he desyred me to descende to the rest . Wherupon
touching particulerly by the waye the state of our doinges the last
yere in Scotlande what hath bene done there of late by my lord of
Rutland and how my lord of Warwike $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} shortly
sent thither to take a further fote in the cuntrey . I shewed him we
wer in no smal hope to growe shortly towardes sum quietnes there so
that his maieste wold be pleased to put to his helping hande both in
staing the saufconduictes that are giuen out to his subgetes to
trafficq thither and also to graunt his consent that his subgetes taken
beyond Barwike in their voyage towardes Scotlande may be laufully
stayed by our men and their goodes taken as forfaict wherby the Scottes
wanting this continuel relief and assistence maye be the soner brought
to sum reason . PAGET,38.012.257

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And , Syr , <paren> quoth I </paren> whereas in those warres with the
Scottes the French <P_39> haue by sundry meanes travailed tempeche our
procedinges there and also delt on thissue very vnfrendly and
vnneighbourly towardes vs the kinges maieste loth to continew in this
fained sort of freendeshipp and desyrous to knowe their meaning herin
sent lately a gentleman of his to the French king desyring to knowe
what he intended by this vnfreendly sort of dealing PAGET,39.012.258

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for if he sought <paren> as by his procedinges it appered he ment
</paren> to breake with his maieste albeit he was not desyrous of warre
yet if he the said French king minded the same
{ED:as_it_semed_by_the_procedinges_of_his_ministres_he_did_OUT} _@ we
requyred that like a prince of honour he wold notifie it vnto vs
{ED:the_same_CROSSED_OUT} PAGET,39.012.259

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and he shuld be aunswered accordingly PAGET,39.012.260

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for after this sort his maieste neither could nor woold endure
PAGET,39.012.261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and that he looked by the same messanger to receiue resolute aunswer
herof . Wherupon the French king alledging that these pikes haue bene
ministred by ministres vpon the frontiers affirming that he meaneth
nothing les thenne to break with vs but rather to contynue peax and
amite yea and taugment it also and offred vnto the said gentleman
tappoint commissioners to mete with my masters both for the redres of
these querels and the establishement if nede be of a further
freendeship , or to do any other reasonnable thing that might serve to
the purpose . Which offer being so aptely moved of the French part your
grace <paren> I said </paren> with thaduise of the rest of the
counsaill remembring that we haue nowe these viij yeres <paren> and
foure of them alone </paren> without other help contynued in warres
both-4 against Scotland and the French king who is a prince of gret
power having to do no where els haue thought good not to refuse , and
hereupon haue appointed commissioners to mete with the French who shall
not conclude any thing preiudicial to the treaties that ar or $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} passed betwene his maieste and the king my master ,
neither shall procede to any resolute conclusion but that he shall haue
knowledge therof before . PAGET,39.012.262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And in cace he will <paren> as both nowe and at other tymes it hath
pleased him to promies </paren> shewe himself a freend or rather father
vnto the kinges maieste my master and assist him in his right he shall
well perceyve we will not let slipp any one jote of his maiestes
interest and due , nor yeld in the leest point to the French that may
be to his maiestes dishonnour or disauantage . PAGET,39.012.263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , if we shall now want the good assistence he hath alwaies put vs
in hope of ; thenne hauing regarde both-2 vnto our masters honnour and
proufitt muste we growe to such a bargayn with the French as <P_40> for
his maiestes estimation and surete $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} thought
mete vnto vs . Wherefor that we may the better direct our doinges to
the conservacion of thamite betwene the kinges maieste and him I
desired that it might like his maieste to declare his pleasyr herin .
PAGET,40.012.264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Hereunto thempereur after his hartie thankes vnto the kinges maieste
and your grace for this frendely sort of communicating vnto him the
state of our procedings aunswered that he was very glad to perceive our
good succes against the Scottes his and our commun ennemies which he
wished might go forwarde and contynue and for his parte he woold not
faile to shewe the king his good brother all the pleasyr he might .
PAGET,40.012.265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As for the French <paren> quoth he </paren> I knowe they haue delt very
vnfrendely with you of late which I am glad ye haue so well encountred
, PAGET,40.012.266

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
ye knowe <paren> quoth he </paren> it is but their old wont to vse
their neighbours this dublely wherof I myself as well as other haue had
sum experience PAGET,40.012.267

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
howbeit ye do well to gyve care to this their motion of talke wherin as
I doubt not but ye will procede as ye saye with respect to my amite so
wold I wishe sum good fruit might growe therof to your quiet and
satisfaction . PAGET,40.012.268

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your devise for the revisiting and confirmation of the treaties with
those other overtures that ye haue touched vnto me haue a good
semblance PAGET,40.012.269

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and be ye sure the king your master my good brother and neighbour shall
at no tyme fynde me vntowarde to go through with any thing that may
tende to the establishmente and confirmation of this amite like as I
also do assure myselfe of the semblable good will and shewe of
freendeship on his behalf wherunto I knowe there $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} want my lord protectours good furtheraunce who is my
freend and old acquaintaunce and hath heretofore bene with me whenne I
haue right well perceiued his good affection towardes myn estate and
procedinges which I shall not forget to requite as I may .
PAGET,40.012.270

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And bicaus <paren> quoth he </paren> these matiers that ye haue moved
ar of sum importaunce and therefore require to be aunswered with
deliberation I will communicate them to my conseill who afterwardes
shall treate with youe herupon , hoping that in the debating therof ye
will be content both-3 to here and yelde to reason as I for my part
will not faile to be conformable thereto . PAGET,40.012.271

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Herewithall his maieste with most gentle woordes licenced vs to departe
. PAGET,40.012.272

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
After our being yesterdaye with thempereur , Granuele towardes night
sent vnto me one of his folkes declaring that by reason of his sicknes
he was not well able to styrre furth of the house PAGET,40.012.273

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therefore praied me to take paine to mete him at his lodging this
morning at viij of the clock as at the tyme appointed we did . When
finding him accompaignied with the duke of Alva and his sonnes Darras
we entred into consultacion PAGET,40.012.274

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and furst <P_41> Granuele told vs that thempereur vpon the passage that
I , the comptroller , had had with him yesterday had willed them to
joyne with vs to conferre theruppon and to enter in to further
particularites . PAGET,41.012.275

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I , the comptroller , aunswerd him hereto that seing they wer by his
maieste appointed to treate with vs I thought it not vnmete topen vnto
them as I had done to thempereur the cause of my cumming
PAGET,41.012.276

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and here discursed I vnto them the hole circumstance of my charge in
these pointes and in like sorte as {in}_P I did yesterdaye to
thempereur . The repeticion wherof bicaus it is superfluous I omitt to
trouble your grace withall . Wherunto Granuele after a long
protestation of the good will and affection that thempereur beareth to
the king my master and his procedinges with sundry offers to do for him
in all thinges to the best of his power like a good freende and brother
as far furth as may stande with his honnour aunswered first as to the
confirmation of the treaties that thempereur thinking the treatie and
league that is alredy betwen my master and him to be of sufficient
force and strength wherby he taketh himself , his sonne , their
successours and countreis sufficiently bounde to thobservacion therof
<paren> so as we also for our partes will repute ourselfes in like
maner bounde to the same </paren> his maieste supposeth this newe
confirmation that we require to be nedeles , adding that though there
wer nomaner treaties betwene vs , and that we had not thus fermely
bounde ourselfes to gider by this league yet doth thempereur conceiue
so good an opinion of our frendeship and beareth so ernest an affection
to the king his good brother that he wold not faile to shewe him such
freendly pleasyr as might any tyme lye in his power and the rather is
he moved to owe the kinges maieste this fatherly love not only for
thamite that he alwayes founde in King Henry theight vntil his latter
daye but also bicaus it liked him at the howre of his death to will the
king that now is to folow his frendeship and to ioyn with the same ,
who he affirmeth shall in very dede finde him a father whensoeuer cause
shall requyre . PAGET,41.012.277

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to the revisiting of the treaties he saith that the bishop of
Winchester and other the kinges commissioners ioined of late yeres with
thempereur at Vtrecht for thesclarcissement of such doubtes as wer
thought to be in the said treatie , who having to the best that their
wittes could serve debated the same and made clere those poinctes that
wer ambiguous , he supposeth there is not left nowe either woord or
clause that is not plaine ynough and vnderstandable to bothe parties .
PAGET,41.012.278

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to our procedinges in Scotlande thempereur he said was very glad to
perceiue the good succes that we haue alredy had and ar like to haue
<P_42> there . For the furtheraunce wherof his maiestes good and
freendly assistence shall not he saith at any tyme want .
PAGET,42.012.279

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And for the stayng of their saufconduites and the traficq that
thempereurs subgectes vse thither his maieste he said being well
enformed of the mater will take such order therin as he doubteth not
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to the king his good brothers satisfaction .
PAGET,42.012.280

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And how vndesirous we ar to assist the Scottes against youe .
PAGET,42.012.281

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It may appere <paren> quoth he </paren> in that we haue bene content to
fall out with them for yours sakes betwene whom and the king your
masters disobedient subgectes vpon the sees , thempereurs people both-1
of this contrey and Spayn ar so continually travailed and spoyled that
it wer much better for them to be at open war . PAGET,42.012.282

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Vnto our procedinges with Fraunce he aunswered me in effect as
thempereur did at my being with him with this addition that where it
was by me amongst the rest touched that if thempereur woold shewe
himself our good freende we wold not in this present communicacion with
Fraunce let slip any one iote of the kinges maiestes right . He said
that he supposed we had hitherto nor shuld not haue he hoped hereafter
any cause to complain of thempereurs good will and freendshipp who hath
already done asmuch ye and more thenne the treaties strayn him to ,
both in assisting vs with such nombres of men as we haue from tyme to
tyme required at his handes and also in staing the Germains with swerd
in hande from passing to the French seruice which he gessed was no
small help to the furtheraunce of the kinges seruice and abating of the
French power who finde themselfes not a litle agreved therewithe
supposing thempereur to vse over much parcialite herin .
PAGET,42.012.283

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And likeas <paren> quoth he </paren> thempereur doubteth not but ye
will at this tyme procede with Fraunce with regard to his amite and the
treatie betwene your master and him so if you make him priuey to your
doinges with them he will most gladly further youe with his counsaill
and advise to the beste of his power hoping that if ye procede to the
conclusion of any thing for Scotlande ye will haue in remembraunce to
gyve his maieste knoweledge therof as ye ar bounde by the treaty to do
. PAGET,42.012.284

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to the mariage betwene thenfant of Portugale and Lady Mary ye knowe
<paren> quoth he </paren> this is no mater to be begon and not gon
through withall , PAGET,42.012.285

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therefore wold we wishe ye descended to sum particularites herin
without which we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} growe towardes any conclusion
. PAGET,42.012.286

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I , the comptroller , replied hereto first as concerning the
confirmation of the treatie likeas <paren> quoth I </paren> the king my
master and his counsaill esteming thempereurs frendeship aboue any
other do desyre that the same might be contynued without any violation
and that the treaties betwen them be left also to their succession . So
albeit they doubt not of the reciprocq <P_43> herof on thempereurs
behalf yet knowing there can be non amite that is ment to be perpetuel
over firmely knit togidre haue they thought meete for the ernest zeale
they beare to the preservacion of this amite and to put all doubtes
that might herafter arrise apart to require to haue the treatie
ratified by the king my master and the prince of Spayn and their
cuntreis which we suppose is not to be refused by thempereur .
PAGET,43.012.287

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,43.012.288

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and brake my tale PAGET,43.012.289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I say not that thempereur doth refuse it PAGET,43.012.290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but I will make a reaport to him again PAGET,43.012.291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and trust to make you such an aunswer from him as you shall haue reason
to be satisfied . PAGET,43.012.292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to the revisiting of the treaties , indede , <paren> quoth I
</paren> yours and our commissioners haue alredy made an
esclarcissement herupon PAGET,43.012.293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but it is now a good while sithens PAGET,43.012.294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and sum thinges may perhapp seme now doubtefull that appered theene to
be plaine ynough . PAGET,43.012.295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And in the overlooking and debating of these thinges it might happen
that either ye for your profit or we for ours might spye sumthing that
ar not conteined in the treaties that wer meet to be added therto
PAGET,43.012.296

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
at the leest ye knowe that in the viewing therof there can non
inconvenience but rather occasion of further amite growe .
PAGET,43.012.297

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye saye true <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,43.012.298

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so will I put the empereur in minde and make reaport vnto you of
his aunswer . PAGET,43.012.299

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to maters of Scotlande we do not forget <paren> quoth I </paren>
that thempereur hath fallen out with them for our sakes as we did also
breke with others for his . PAGET,43.012.300

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And for the spoile that ye saye is made by such rovers as ar abrode on
thempereurs subgetes the king my master is right sory therefore his
people receyving no les hurt at these mens handes thenne thempereurs ,
PAGET,43.012.301

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and wer he not otherwayes empeched he woold see a short redres herin ,
PAGET,43.012.302

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but ye perceiue he hath not presently any apt tyme therto .
PAGET,43.012.303

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We knowe that thempereur hath in these warres against ours and his
commun enemies shewed vs pleasyr and assisted vs with men for our money
wherin he hath shewed much graciousite and don correspondent to the
treatie . PAGET,43.012.304

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And we forget it not PAGET,43.012.305

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} alwayes redy to requite him with the
sembable in cace of nede doubting nothing but his maieste will contynue
this his good will and freendeship in such further assistence as he
shall perceiue to be requisite which is as laufull for him to do
towardes vs his freendes without breking his treaties with the French
as it is for them tassist the Scottes their freendes against vs without
violation of the league that is between vs and the rather for that the
same is employed against such as ar aswel enemies to his maieste as to
vs . PAGET,43.012.306

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As for the staying of thalmains from passing vnto the French seruice I
know <paren> quoth I </paren> the same standeth vs in good stede as it
serveth also to thempereurs owne commoditie whom it standeth in hand
not to suffre the Frenche to furnishe themselfes with that nation ;
PAGET,43.012.307

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for although there be not presently any <P_44> cause of querel betwen
the French and him yet who can tel what innovation may happen .
PAGET,44.012.308

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As concerning the mariage <paren> quoth I </paren> in dede it <paren>
as ye say </paren> mete we came to sum particulerite PAGET,44.012.309

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and likeas we haue power to treate and conclude heruppon so before we
entre toffer what we think mete to gyve with the Lady Mary me semeth it
wer good ye declared to vs the state of thinfant , PAGET,44.012.310

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and here taking that I had demaunded his age , Mary , <paren> quoth he
</paren> he is a man of fourty yere old or therabout . PAGET,44.012.311

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Nay , Monsieur Granvele <paren> quoth I </paren> I required not to know
his yeres but rather what state he is of and what dower he may be able
to assure vnto the Lady Mary . PAGET,44.012.312

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In good faith <paren> quoth he </paren> I am not able to acertain youe
therof PAGET,44.012.313

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but as for his personage good witt and qualites I assure you he is a
gentleman worthy to be matched with any gret princes . PAGET,44.012.314

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Besides that he is brother vnto the King of Portugall , whereby he
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} able to shewe frendeship to the kinges maieste
and stande your cuntrey to good stede likeas also the good wil that
thempereur beareth to this gentleman whom he estemeth as his owne sonne
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} but be a furtheraunce to thentretemement of
thamite that we seke on both partes , assuring you that there is not in
Christendom so mete a matche as woold be betwen them twayn .
PAGET,44.012.315

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And I promise you <paren> quoth I </paren> for our part that the Lady
Mary is <paren> as I suppose ye knowe well ynough </paren> both-2 in
beauty vertuous and honest qualites nothing inferior to that worthines
ye reaport this gentlman to be of and on thother syde she is sister to
a king of Englande and nere kyn vnto thempereur and one whom , I gesse
, his maieste fauoureth as a daughter of his , PAGET,44.012.316

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therefor , quoth I , seing the personages ar so mete to matche to
gidre and that thempereur reputeth him self as a freende and father to
them both he must in a maner playe both partes and do aswell for the
mariage of the Lady Mary as for Don Lowys and with and equal
consideracion of their estates order this thing as a mater of
indifference for both sydes , not mesuring the demaunde for her dote
after thestimation of his own power and estate but after the qualite of
them for whom the mater is treated . PAGET,44.012.317

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What think ye mete to bestow with her <paren> quoth Granuele </paren>
PAGET,44.012.318

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for I wold be loth to cum empty handed <paren> quoth he </paren> to
thempereur PAGET,44.012.319

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therfor I pray you descend to sum particulerite . PAGET,44.012.320

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I said she had a goodly yerely revenue left her by the kinges maieste
decessed , which he making very light I told him that the king , her
father , maried his two sisters thone to the French king with ij=c=
thousand crownes and thother to the Scottishe king with a hundred
thousande crownes . PAGET,44.012.321

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And I pray you <paren> quoth I </paren> what did the King of Romains
offre with his daughter for the king my master . PAGET,44.012.322

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye , <paren> quoth he </paren> the King Ferdinande is but a poore
prince , PAGET,44.012.323

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but the <P_45> king your master being so riche and puissant $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} but distribute liberally with his suster and according to
his honour PAGET,45.012.324

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for his father did offer ones with her to this same man fourty thousand
pounde sterling . PAGET,45.012.325

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye , syr , <paren> quoth I </paren> my master is as ye knowe and hath
ben of long while in warres PAGET,45.012.326

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and hath occasion to be at gret charges and expence of money ,
PAGET,45.012.327

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
howbeit in cace the Infant may assure this lady a convenable dower we
will not let to stretche ourselfes to twese asmuch as her father left
to her by his testament {ED:TORN} entured to an hundred thousand
crownes . PAGET,45.012.328

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But furst <paren> quoth I </paren> er we can procede to any certain
offer herin we must be ioinctely ascertained of this gentlemans estate
and what habilite he is of to thende we may procede thereafter and not
be forced to revocque any thing we shuld offre , PAGET,45.012.329

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for dote and dower must go to gidre arme in arme . PAGET,45.012.330

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well , <paren> quoth he </paren> I will communicate aswel this as the
rest of our talke vnto thempereur and procure his resolucion therin as
shortely as may be PAGET,45.012.331

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for I knowe <paren> quoth he </paren> ye woold be loth to folowe the
courte , PAGET,45.012.332

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I have leave to go to my cuntrey but that now I will tary a while
to see these maters in sum good point before my going .
PAGET,45.012.333

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We haue bene also with the Quene of Hungarie vnto whom we declared the
kinges maiestes lettres with his highnes and your graces most hartie
commendations . PAGET,45.012.334

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And for the better furtheraunce of the kinges affaires we thought good
in generalite to communicate vnto her certain part of our charge which
she tooke in very acceptable part promising with many good woordes to
further to the best of her power this or any other thing that may be
for thenterteinment of thamite which she hath alwaies furthered to her
best knowing the same to be so necessarie for the welth and commodite
of both cuntreis . PAGET,45.012.335

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
These haue bene our procedinges hitherto which we haue thought good to
signifie to your grace in the meane whiles PAGET,45.012.336

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and as we shall hereafter entre further we will aduertise your grace
from tyme to tyme accordingly . PAGET,45.012.337

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus we beseche God to preserve your grace and send youe well to do
in all your procedinges . PAGET,45.012.338

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Bruselles the xxiiij June in the mornyng 1549 . PAGET,45.012.339

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your graces most humbly at commaundement William Paget PAGET,45.012.340

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_012:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Phelyp Hoby PAGET,45.012.341

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_013> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_THOMAS_SMITH_2> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1513>

<P_45>

{ED:28._TO_SIR_THOMAS_SMITH._BRUSSELS._26_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary . Aftre my right harty commendacions . These maye be
to signifie vnto youe that here hath been with me <P_46> William
Damyzell moche dismayed of such lettres as hath been sent vnto him out
of Englande sum before my departing thens and sum sythens ;
PAGET,46.013.342

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
he semeth by anything that I can perceave innocent of suche mattiers as
ar layde to his charge PAGET,46.013.343

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and offreth to cum home to sett his foote by who soever shall haue
accused his procedinges to my lordes grace , or any of the counsaill
and if he be proved false in his administracion for the king thenne to
lose his goodes and his lief , requiring only that in the prove of his
innocencye such as haue labored by wrong informacions to cloke there
own conveyaunces maye haue the lesse creditt aftrewarde .
PAGET,46.013.344

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , in one thing he sayth he playd the foole that for the gayne of
iiij=xx= $xiij $=li {TEXT:xiij=li=} vjs viijd he bownde him self to
thadventure of two thowsand powndes besides the penaltie which is
dooble and treble the thing forfaited and thimprisonement of his body .
PAGET,46.013.345

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Butt hensfurth he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} wyser PAGET,46.013.346

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and never slept quietly <paren> he sayth </paren> till he hard it was
in Englande PAGET,46.013.347

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for thenne being there arrived he hadde not to do withall .
PAGET,46.013.348

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Butt it was Gresshams own bargayn , PAGET,46.013.349

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and he nother-1 in his own name nor the kinges hadde any parte in it .
PAGET,46.013.350

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For thoughe he make sumtymes aventure in his own name and sumtymes
wynnes thereby and sumtymes losys as he hath lost even now in a bargayn
of oode <paren> he sayth </paren> ccc=li= yett for the king he will not
ne dare aventure with out speciall commission . PAGET,46.013.351

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And in this case of Bullyon his commission was to practise
{ED:for_an_exchange_of_lede_or_bell_metall_CROSSED_OUT} butt at the
leest without excepcion for the delyvery of it in London which lettre I
saw and myn own hand amonges other at it PAGET,46.013.352

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I haue seen the minute of his answere which he saythe was delyvered
there within three dayes aftre and remayneth with Master Honinges
PAGET,46.013.353

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and herd not from youe in a fortenight aftre . PAGET,46.013.354

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And yett thenne none answere to his lettres , during which tyme Tucker
sought his proffitt in the sale of it here to suche as woold abide
thaventure of it and mett with Gressham to whom it was twise offred or
he tooke it . PAGET,46.013.355

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well theye two be ones towght for thaventuring of bullyon for them
selfes onlesse theye haue speciall commaundement for the kinges behaulf
. PAGET,46.013.356

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And this man seketh only to haue his seruice graciously taken and none
otherwise thenne he deserueth . PAGET,46.013.357

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And in dede to saye my poore opinion it is good alwayes to kepe one
eare for him that is absent PAGET,46.013.358

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for so shall the trowth be knowen and men that serve abrode be best
cooraged . PAGET,46.013.359

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Such a lettre as was written to Damyzell was the death of one of the
proprest men that ever served the king on this syde in his feate ; as
my lorde of Southampton and your fellowe <P_47> knowe right well . I
meane Hutton whom the Lord Crumwell vpon an vntrew informacion strake
to the harte and killed him that he lyved not three dayes meryly aftre
. PAGET,47.013.360

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
A kynde herte meaning truly is easely with vnkyndnes vndeserued sone
dispatched . Wherefore whenne prynces be in soden heates and specially
without certaine grownd , we secretaries must temporise the matter with
termes convenyent PAGET,47.013.361

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for elles no man can be able to serve abrode . PAGET,47.013.362

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thus partly at the request of the man and sumwhat vppon myn own simple
consideracion and also good will to your well doing I haue thought
convenyent to write , doubting nothing butt that youe will take it in
as good parte as {in}_P I meane it . PAGET,47.013.363

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus praying you both to lett me here sumtyme from youe of your
occurrentes and state of thinges there and to procure quicke dispatches
of aunswere to vs here from tyme to tyme . I bidde you most hartely
well to fare with my harty commendacions to my good litle lady your
wief . PAGET,47.013.364

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Brusselles the xxvjth of June 1549 . PAGET,47.013.365

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your assured loving frend to my power William Paget PAGET,47.013.366

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I praye you do so muche for me as to send me a minute of my lettre to
Master Petre and you of the xxiiijth of this present ; PAGET,47.013.367

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
it is written with myn own hand . PAGET,47.013.368

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
LETTER:PAGET_013:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master Honinges will copie it out at the furst for me .
PAGET,47.013.369

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET&> <L_PAGET_014> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_47>

{ED:29._WILLIAM_PAGET_AND_SIR_PHILIP_HOBY_TO_SOMERSET._BRUSSELS._30
_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It may like your grace to be aduertised that vpon the xxvj of this
present cam to the lodging of me , the comptroller , Monsieur Darras
and in his cumpany the twoo presidentes of the counsail St. Maurice and
Viglius who after a few woordes of office passed betwene them and vs
entred the cause of their cumming , saing that thempereur hauing bene
enformed of such conference as passed this other da {ED:TORN} betwene
Monsieur de Granuele <paren> for he so nameth his father </paren> and
youe hath to declare his redynes to anything that might set furth his
good will and affection to thamite of the king : PAGET,47.014.370

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
sent vs here <P_48> to revisit the treaties , and see howe we do agree
vpon thunderstanding of the same . PAGET,48.014.371

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I , the comptroller , aunswered that it was not amisse PAGET,48.014.372

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
howbeit I had not so opened the mater nor looked to haue it passed in
such ordre , but furst to knowe thempereurs resolution how he can be
contented with the confirmation of the treatie in the forme that I had
moved , and that agreed vpon , to procede to the revisitation of the
same . PAGET,48.014.373

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In good faith <paren> quoth Darras </paren> we did so vnderstand it
PAGET,48.014.374

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so haue reapported to thempereur PAGET,48.014.375

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and this commission hath he nowe giuen vs . PAGET,48.014.376

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well , <paren> quoth I </paren> seing you ar now here , and haue
brought the treatie with youe for that purpose we may do sumthing in it
, and afterward be advised further , requiring that in cace any thing
shuld be found in this passage of the treatie meet to be considered ,
that we might before further reading in the mater knowe thempereurs
resolution , aswell touching the confirmation of the treaty , as such
thinges as nowe might be moved . Which they thought reasonnable
PAGET,48.014.377

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so we beganne to reade the treatie . PAGET,48.014.378

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And whenne we cam to the vjth article wherin it is prouided for the
commyn ennemite in cace of inuasion , and by thesclarissement set furth
with what nombre the inuasion must be made and that both-3 for
thinvasion and nombre the prince required to ioyn shall credite the
lettres of the prince requiring . I put this cace <paren> quoth I
</paren> for thunderstanding of this mater that the king my master will
signifie by his lettres to thempereur that such a daye the Scottes our
commyn enemies to the nombre of viij=m= men of warre with thaide of the
French king affronted the borders of Englande comprehended in the
treatie , and sent aboue two thousand men of warre in to the realme to
inuade , who did in ded inuade and spoile and burne and take prisoners
, and therefore wold require thempereur according to the treatie to
take the French king who hath aided his ennemis for his ennemie , is
not thempereur bounde to do it ? PAGET,48.014.379

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What say you <paren> quoth I </paren> PAGET,48.014.380

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
how do you vnderstande this article . PAGET,48.014.381

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It shuld seme , yes , <paren> quoth Darras </paren> PAGET,48.014.382

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but we will speke with thempereur in it and bring you an aunswer .
PAGET,48.014.383

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The woordes be playn <paren> quoth I </paren> PAGET,48.014.384

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be avoyded . PAGET,48.014.385

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We will speke with thempereur in it <paren> quoth he </paren>
PAGET,48.014.386

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and tooke a note of the cace in a payre of tables , wherin also he
noted the rest of the thinges afterward moved . PAGET,48.014.387

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thenne in the seuenth article , where it is said that the prince
requiring for his aide , money in stede of men , must , if thinvasion
made by thennemy ceasse , restore the money again which remayneth and
afterward saith that though thinuasion ceasse , yet if he will folowe
thennemy , he shall may use thaide for the tyme appointed in the
treatye , saing in generalite <paren> eo casu subsidiis auxiliaribus &c
</paren> I asked wheder in those general woordes they meane not aswell
the money as the men . Wheruppon they seamed to doubt and tooke a note
therof to knowe thempereurs <P_49> opinion in the same .
PAGET,49.014.388

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In the ixth article where is treated for the redres of iniuries done by
one subgect to another . Ther we fell in to a brawle of half an howre
long vpon a question that I moved , <font> viz </font> : whenne they
tooke justice to be denyed , PAGET,49.014.389

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and their aunswer that we vsed none at all . PAGET,49.014.390

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And here at length I in to their maner of tharrest of our hole nation
vpon a knaue mariners complaint , PAGET,49.014.391

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and he what theves our nation was vpon the sea and lawles people , and
that they neuer proceded to such extremities but whenne their subgettes
had bene in England and justice was denyed . PAGET,49.014.392

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
That hath neuer bene seen <paren> quoth I </paren> PAGET,49.014.393

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but if any of your subgetes think himself greved , straight he runneth
to Monsieur le Protectour , PAGET,49.014.394

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and he by and by setting a part all the kinges gret affaires must
attende to thaffaire of Monsieur le Marinier , PAGET,49.014.395

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
orels home runneth he with open cry that he can haue no iustice in
England , PAGET,49.014.396

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and you straight beleve , PAGET,49.014.397

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and theruppon cummith all these often brusleries . PAGET,49.014.398

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And do you think it reason <paren> quoth I </paren> that Monsieur de
Granuele or you shuld attende to euery priuate mans complaint ,
PAGET,49.014.399

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
you shuld thenne haue a goodly office . PAGET,49.014.400

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , you sende them straight to thordinary justice PAGET,49.014.401

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so let that take place and waye as it woll , PAGET,49.014.402

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but you will neuer empeche yourself more with the mater .
PAGET,49.014.403

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And reason <paren> quoth he </paren> but the cace is not like with you
in Englande PAGET,49.014.404

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for their <paren> quoth he </paren> all thinges cum to the lord
protectours hand . PAGET,49.014.405

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
There is none other judge nor justice vsed or cared for in the realm .
PAGET,49.014.406

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , and his lettres sumtymes not estemed , PAGET,49.014.407

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and that our poore subgetes feele full often , PAGET,49.014.408

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therefore must of force resort to Monsieur le Protectour .
PAGET,49.014.409

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
This is not true <paren> quoth I </paren> but very slaunderous ,
PAGET,49.014.410

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for I asseure you <paren> quoth I </paren> that Monsieur lambassadeur
knowith , turning to Master Hobby , my lord protectour nor none of the
pryvey counsaill medle with no priuate mater whose soeuer it be but
only with maters of estate , leaving all other thinges to their
ordinary course of justice , except that only many tymes to gratefie
your ambassadour and to shewe himself glad to nourishe this amite
troubleth himself with the complaintes of your subgetes which <paren>
by Saint Mary </paren> by myn aduise he shall do no more seing it is so
litle consydred but shall referre them to the commyn justice .
PAGET,49.014.411

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Wheder is that <paren> quoth he </paren> ? PAGET,49.014.412

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
To the admiralte <paren> quoth I </paren> . PAGET,49.014.413

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , a goodly justice , quoth he , PAGET,49.014.414

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for so shall the poore mans cause be tried before his aduersarye .
PAGET,49.014.415

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And why not tryed in our admiralte <paren> quoth I </paren> aswell as
in yours . PAGET,49.014.416

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , <paren> quoth he </paren> both be naught . PAGET,49.014.417

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In dede they wer the verye ordinarie courtes at the beginning for
redres of maters vpon the see PAGET,49.014.418

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but now they feele the sweete of the gayn such as they care litle for
justice . PAGET,49.014.419

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And here aswell for the relief of poore men spoiled and robbed vpon the
sea as to avoyde arrestes and such other troublesum procedinges on
either side , we fell to deuising PAGET,49.014.420

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and cam to the point <P_50> <paren> if the Princes for their partes
vpon their aduertisement to thempereur and we to your grace shall like
it </paren> that commission sufficient be giuen by thempereur to twoo
of his priuey counsaill to here and determine by their discretion
summarie and de plano all complaintes by the kinges subgetes here for
criminal causes vpon the sea , and the kinges maieste to do the like to
twoo of his priuey counsaill for the complaintes in like caces of
thempereurs subgetes . PAGET,50.014.421

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And this was all we passed in open conference saving that in the
discours for the confirmation of the treatye by the princes and their
cuntreis ; as they semed to shew thempereurs redynes <paren> but yet
not so resolued </paren> that the prince shuld confirme the treatie and
that further any other thing shuld be done that he might reasonnably do
to declare his good will to thentretemement and augmentacion of this
amite and affection to the kinges maiestie , so he alledged diuers
reasons why thempereur shuld not seeke to his subgectes to confirme his
treaties with foreign princes . PAGET,50.014.422

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We alledged thexample of the king and the French king in tymes past and
what was saide in that cace at Callai {ED:TORN} in the presence of
himself , De Courieres and Chapuis wherunto he aunswered that the state
of Fraunce was more restreined thenne thempereur and that the French
king could giue no part of his patrimony nor binde his cuntrey without
the consent of the parliament at Paris and the three estates , but he
thought the kinges of England to haue a gretter prerogatiue , and
thempereur he was sure had a gretter prerogatiue and so had all his
auncestours and therfore woold be lothe to begin nowe to put himself so
far in theyr subgettes daungers . PAGET,50.014.423

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
They wer he said xv or xvj parliamentes PAGET,50.014.424

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and if a thing shuld be proponed vnto them wherof they had never herd
the like before they woold not only muse much at the mater ,
PAGET,50.014.425

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but they woold haue also euery one of them the scannyng of it
PAGET,50.014.426

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and what wold cum of it thempereur could not tell , PAGET,50.014.427

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
peraduenture dashe the mater PAGET,50.014.428

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so preiudice his prerogatiue with them , and that where now he and
his auncestors do and haue alwayes passed treaties with other princes
and binde their subgetes thereby without making them priuey therto ;
PAGET,50.014.429

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
it wold by this meane cum to passe that from hensforth the subgetes
woold looke to be priuey to euery treaty , which wer not convenient .
PAGET,50.014.430

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , but for the prince that shall succede to confirme the treaty he
thought thempereur could not take it but reasonable PAGET,50.014.431

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and doubted not to bring a good aunswer in the same . So as we see that
for this point it will cum to the confirmacion of the king and the
prince , and vpon any addition or interpretation of the treatie to
thempereur also wherin we entende to go forwarde PAGET,50.014.432

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for so our instruction beareth vs onles that before the conclusion and
shutting vp of the mater we here from your grace to the contrarye .
PAGET,50.014.433

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The thinges <P_51> being thus farre passed and our talkes at a point
and they redy to depart Monsieur Darras taking occasion <paren> as it
seamed </paren> to stay bicaus of the rayne tooke me a syde
PAGET,51.014.434

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and asked me wheder I woold commaunde him any other seruice .
PAGET,51.014.435

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I aunswered no seruice but frendship and contynuaunce of his good will
to the kinges maiestes affaires wherunto he making large offres I began
to entre with him how much your grace and all the rest reposed
yourselfes in the frendeship of thempereur and the good ministery of
his father and him to the furtheraunce of the kinges maiesties affaires
; to whom as in that behalf they shewed themselfes gret freendes as did
they like good servauntes to their master , PAGET,51.014.436

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for the prosperous succes of thaffaires of thone serued the turne of
thother and contrary . Whereupon I discoursed largely asfar as my poore
capacite woold extende howe necessary it was for thempereur tayde vs
and assiste vs in all thinges so as we wer not oppressed by force or
dryven for want of frendeship to take such wayes to kepe vs in quiet as
both we ourselfes wold be loth and our freendes shuld afterwardes haue
perauenture cause to forthink . PAGET,51.014.437

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I repeted how furst we entred the warre for their sake PAGET,51.014.438

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for the king might haue made his bargain honorably with Fraunce which
no man knew better then I how long we haue endured the warre and how
long alone howe fauourable they ar to our commun enemies the Scottes ,
howe vngentle the French be to vs , and by indirect meanes thinke to
consume vs to make thempereur the weaker . PAGET,51.014.439

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I recited the practises of the French with the Turk with the pope ,
with the Germains , with Denmark , his aide of the Scotes , and all
vpon entent to empeche thempereur , whenne he seith tyme or at the
least attending a good howre vpon hope of thempereurs death to
overthrow his sonne if it shall lye in his power , the which the weaker
that we be the easelier shall he do it . PAGET,51.014.440

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And if we forgo any of our peces on thisside we must nedes be the
weaker , PAGET,51.014.441

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and that so we had rather do , thenne alone to kepe warre against
Scotland and Fraunce . Wherefore if they will provide both for their
own strength and giue vs courage to kepe still that which we haue ,
thempereur must be contented to take Boulloyn in to defence aswell as
other places comprehended in the treatie ; which I sayd we ment not but
vpon a reasonable reciprocq . PAGET,51.014.442

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What reciprocq <paren> quoth he </paren> roundely . PAGET,51.014.443

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Therupon aduise you reasonably <paren> quoth I </paren> .
PAGET,51.014.444

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
O , quoth he , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} see how thempereur can
honorably make a newe treatye for that point without offence of his
treatie with Fraunce , PAGET,51.014.445

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and we meane to procede directly and plainly with all men <paren> quoth
he </paren> . PAGET,51.014.446

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Why <paren> quoth I </paren> we may bring you iustly by and by in with
vs if we will aduertise youe as I did euen now put my cace .
PAGET,51.014.447

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Yea , if your cace be true <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,51.014.448

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but herin will we charge your honours and conscience wheder the fact be
so or no . PAGET,51.014.449

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For your <P_52> grace shall vnderstande that I talked in that mater so
suspiciously as though such an inuasion had bene made and that ye woold
require commun ennemite . PAGET,52.014.450

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In fine , Syr , after many motions and persuasions and long discourses
vsed on my behalf to induce them to take Boulleyn in to defence and his
refuge only that they woold faine lerne how they might honestly aunswer
the French albeit I shewed him sum formes of aunswers which he semed
not to like , yet in thende I said he was a gret doctor and as he had
put the doubt so he was lerned sufficiently <paren> if he listed
</paren> to assoyle the same . PAGET,52.014.451

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
He said he wold open these maters to thempereur and trusted to bring me
such aunswer as I shuld haue reason to be satisfied PAGET,52.014.452

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so departed . PAGET,52.014.453

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Wherof assone as we haue knoweledge your grace $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
aduertysed accordingly . PAGET,52.014.454

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus we beseche God to sende your grace well to do in all your
procedinges . PAGET,52.014.455

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Bruxelles the last of June in the mornyng 1549 . PAGET,52.014.456

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your graces most humbly at commaundement William Paget PAGET,52.014.457

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_014:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Phelyp Hoby PAGET,52.014.458

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_015> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1506>

<P_53>

{ED:31._TO_PETRE_OR_SMITH._BRUSSELS._30_JUNE,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Aftre my most harty commendacions . As I am suer our procedinges here
shall appere vnto youe by our commen lettres : So haue I thought good
not to molest youe otherwise with the same , only praying youe that I
maye here from youe of your occurentes there . Whereby youe shall do me
singuler pleasour and therwithall to helpe to procure me aunswere both
spedely and certaynly of such thinges as at this present we desire to
be answered in from my lordes grace and to retorne my man againe with
diligence with the same . PAGET,53.015.459

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And thus I byd you most hartely well to fare PAGET,53.015.460

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
from Bruselles the last of June in the morning 1549 . PAGET,53.015.461

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your own Paget . PAGET,53.015.462

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I haue geuen my man money both-1 for his goynge and his retorne .
PAGET,53.015.463

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I praye youe to retorne vnto me by this bearer a copie of the lettre I
wrote vnto youe with myn own hande of the xxiiijth of this presente .
PAGET,53.015.464

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We haue newes here by Andwerpe of gret maystryes that our men haue made
in Scotland and out of France that Vervyns is behedd and de Byes cast
to be drawen into four quarters but there is hoped for a pardon also
that there be descending downe out of Swyzerland into Fraunce xvj=M=
Swyzers . PAGET,53.015.465

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE[OR_THOMAS_SMITH]:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_015:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The cyphre wherin I write is Master Hobbyes ciphre . PAGET,53.015.466

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_016> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1506>

<P_54>

{ED:34._TO_PETRE._BRUSSELS._8_JULY,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master secretary , with my most harty commendacions . Youe shall
vnderstande that yesternight Francisco arrived here by <P_55> whom I
receaved your lettres amonges the rest , for the which I most hartely
thanke youe . Signifying further vnto youe to be aduertised to my
lordes grace that I feare I am like to haue here butt a colde iourney
PAGET,55.016.467

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for notwithstanding that I haue sent aboue foure tymes for aunswere to
our last taulkes , yett I am putt of with fayre woordes and thempereur
departed to Lovayn from whens he will retorne to morowe and within a
daye or two to Gaunte the highe waye to Englande whether I thinke I
maye cum shortly for any greate mattier I haue to do here , butt suche
as I thinke $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} sone concluded . <font> Viz. </font>
, the confyrmacion of the treatie , PAGET,55.016.468

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for the other poyntes of myn instruccions ar defalked .
PAGET,55.016.469

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The mariage if theye speak not as <paren> I thinke </paren> theye will
not is thought good to be no more spoken of , PAGET,55.016.470

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
the entre for ioynt invacion is taken awaye , which I like also if they
seke it not . PAGET,55.016.471

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And the comprehencion of Bulloyn is taken awaye which I like not ,
PAGET,55.016.472

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for by vertue of myn instruccions I haue gone so farre as if theye
embrace it I se not well how it can be avoyded , PAGET,55.016.473

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and me thinkes it serueth to greate purposse to trye him with all and
bring him in . PAGET,55.016.474

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And as for your bownde to defende another place in reciproke therof
whenne peraduenture Bulloyn $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} departed with all
is nothing , as who sayth youe maye not do as you haue been done to .
PAGET,55.016.475

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Alas , Master secretary , we must not thinke that heven is here , butt
that we lyve in a woorld . PAGET,55.016.476

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It is a wonderfull mattier to here what brutes runne abrode here of
your thinges at home which killeth my harte to here PAGET,55.016.477

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I wott not what to saye to them because I knowe they be trewe ,
PAGET,55.016.478

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and theye be aswell knowen here in every mans mowthe as youe knowe them
at the courte , PAGET,55.016.479

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I feare me bettre and that not by Frenche men , butt by these
cuntrey men and our own good nacion . PAGET,55.016.480

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
If theye conclude vpon the confyrmacion I haue executed my commission
as it is nowe restrayned onlesse I shalle talke further of Bulloyn
whereof I woolde be gladde to be enformed , and whether I shall vpon
the conclucion of this confyrmacion retorne home if theye speake
nothing more , or elles remayn here still like a cyphre in algorisme .
PAGET,55.016.481

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I haue for the conforte of my poore wief and children sent this bearer
my servant expressely to her and appoynted him to saye sumthing to you
tooching myn own affayres . PAGET,55.016.482

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I praye youe lett me here from you shortly by my said seruante whom or
elles Fletcher I haue willed to retorne to me within two or three dayes
PAGET,55.016.483

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and by him if youe or my lordes grace whose pleasour I require youe to
knowe in the premisses will any thing to me you may sende me woord
PAGET,55.016.484

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I praye youe do so PAGET,55.016.485

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for it shall cost the king no money . PAGET,55.016.486

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
This lettre to my lordes grace we thought good to open leest any thing
hadde been in it to haue been done here . PAGET,55.016.487

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Youe write that youe haue sent me the copie <P_56> of my other lettre
which I desired , PAGET,56.016.488

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
butt it is not cum . PAGET,56.016.489

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thus I bidde you most hartely well to fare . PAGET,56.016.490

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Bruxelles the viijth of July in the morning 1549 .
PAGET,56.016.491

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Concernyng the poynt of ordenyng judges of both counsailes for the
determynacion of complayntes for matters on the see wherof we wrote in
our last lettres and haue non answer , we mynd to follow our
instructons onless you send word by the next to the contrary which I
pray you to remembre . PAGET,56.016.492

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_016:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your own Paget . PAGET,56.016.493

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET&> <L_PAGET_017> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_56>

{ED:35._PAGET_AND_HOBY_TO_SOMERSET._ALOST._12_JULY,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
It may like your grace after our most humble recommendacions to be
aduertised that having sence our last conference with Darras and his
company which is now xv dayes passed had none aunswer from thempereur
although we haue thre or foure tymes vsed meanes for the same . To
thende we woold giue them tunderstand we thought the tyme very long and
to knowe <paren> if we could </paren> the cause of the same I , the
comptroller , sent yesternight vnto Monsieur de Granuele desyring him
bicause I herd saye he went towardes Bourgoyn shortly PAGET,56.017.494

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I also for any thing me seamed I had to do here might in like maner
departe shortly in to Englande to appoint me sum tyme to visite him to
knowe if he woold at his being in his cuntrey and I in myn commaunde me
in any thing wherin I might do him pleasur or seruice .
PAGET,56.017.495

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
He returned me woord that if I woold the morowe folowing at viij of the
clock take paines to cum to his lodging I shuld be right welcum .
PAGET,56.017.496

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And <paren> quoth he </paren> to the messenger ye may see howe I lye
<paren> for he was thenne in his bedd </paren> tormented with paines in
my legges . PAGET,56.017.497

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But bicaus I my self am not able thereto my son Monsieur Darras doth
sollicite the mater to thempereur with whom he is nowe about the same .
PAGET,56.017.498

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And let him not think <paren> quoth he </paren> that he is forgotten
PAGET,56.017.499

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for I assure youe the mater hath bene all this weke very diligently
debated as I shall further declare vnto Monsieur Paget at his cumming
hither . PAGET,56.017.500

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
According to his appointement we repaired to Monsieur de Granuele this
morning to whom I , the comptroller , at my cumming declared that
considering his good affection towardes the king my master and hering
saye he was minded to depart shortly towardes his cuntrey I was now cum
both to take my leave of him and to knowe wheder he woold commaund me
any service at my cumming in to Englande . PAGET,56.017.501

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
He thanked me for my gret <P_57> offre PAGET,57.017.502

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and after that he had by sundry good woordes set furth thaffection he
beareth towardes the kinges maieste and his procedinges .
PAGET,57.017.503

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well , <paren> quoth he </paren> leaving these maters apart , let vs
entre in to those that ar of greater emportaunce . PAGET,57.017.504

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And first I promise you <paren> quoth he </paren> that this long staye
thempereur hath made to thaunswer of your charge hath not been for any
lack of good will on his part or for want of affection towardes the
king his good brother , but only bicaus he hath ben letted by other
maters of importaunce about the settling of his sonne in these partes
by such ordre as hath heretofore bene seldom seen in these partes and
therefore hath it bene sumwhat difficult to cumpasse PAGET,57.017.505

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but bicaus he shall not haue conuenient tyme to depeche you hens as his
desyre was he prayeth you at your commodite to meet him at Gaunt where
he $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} vpon Sonday at night at the furthest
PAGET,57.017.506

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and there the furst thing that he will go about $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} to despeche youe . PAGET,57.017.507

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Monsieur Granvele , <paren> quoth I </paren> it is now xv dayes as ye
knowe sens your son , Monsieur Darras , and I wer last to gidres
PAGET,57.017.508

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and considering that in this meane while we haue had neither aunswer
nor any motion therof we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but think it sumwhat
straunge howbeit as ye saye thempereur perhaps hath bene busyed about
maters of much importaunce , and esteming those that I am cum for
hither but light in respect of thotheres hath thought best to differe
myn aunswer till better leasyr . PAGET,57.017.509

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Nay , <paren> quoth he </paren> I woold be loth ye shuld suspect so
PAGET,57.017.510

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for by myn honor and faith that I beare to thempereur my master his
maieste fauoureth no les the king his good brother then his naturel son
and the furtheraunce of his procedinges as his owne , as whenne tyme
requireth $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} well declared . PAGET,57.017.511

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But <paren> quoth he </paren> his maieste hath differed this aunswer
only to gyve the resolution thereof at Gaunt wher he shall be at better
leasyr and shall he hopeth dispeche you thene in such sort as you shall
haue cause to be contented . PAGET,57.017.512

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I am , Monsieur de Granvele , <paren> quoth I </paren> cum hither as ye
see to serve thempereur and to sollicite those thinges that me semeth
ar asmuch to his commodite as ours considering that the welth of thone
dependeth on thothers surety which besides the particuler affection
that I beare and alwayes haue borne to thestablishement of this amite
moveth me the rather to desyre the short conclusion herof .
PAGET,57.017.513

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Monsieur lambassador , <paren> quoth he </paren> I assure you
thempereur my master meaneth non other wayes but vprightly without
dissimulation towardes his good brother PAGET,57.017.514

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and if he shuld vse any other termes with you then playn trouth
considering he hath no maner occasion therto , I assure you I wold not
repute him worthy the name and estimation he beareth . PAGET,57.017.515

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But <paren> quoth he </paren> you may be bold to think he meaneth good
faith and tendereth no les the kinges affaires then his owne
PAGET,57.017.516

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and be ye sure he will not sei hym <P_58> forgo any small jote of that
he hath presently if he may let it as he hath sent plain woord to the
French that if the touche the king in never so small point of those
thinges that ar comprised within the treatyes with Englande , he will
not faile to sei redres therof PAGET,58.017.517

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and the same message hath my sonne , Darras , told thambassador here
PAGET,58.017.518

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and biddes them looke for none other but that we will plainly shewe
youe all the pleasyr we can . PAGET,58.017.519

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And <paren> quoth he </paren> we knowe aswell by coniecture as by
aduertisementes from Fraunce that they will not for thys tyme breake
with youe in open ennemite but perhaps procure as their custume is to
steale by pollicie sum pece of yours which we vnderstande they minde
tattempt shortly . PAGET,58.017.520

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But <paren> quoth he </paren> looke well to your thinges
PAGET,58.017.521

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and keepe them out of their handes this yere PAGET,58.017.522

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and doubt ye not but the next yere God will sende you sum assistence
that shall help youe and gyve them inough to busy themselfes in as ye
shall I trust shortly perceiue . PAGET,58.017.523

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
In good faith , Monsieur Granuele , <paren> quoth I </paren> we haue
long sence estemed thempereurs procedinges and ours commun and the
chiefest cause that might haue moved doubt of his amite which was his
aspiration to a monarchie being now of a long while clered out of our
stomackes PAGET,58.017.524

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
we can not but think his gretnes maketh for vs PAGET,58.017.525

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and do recon our selfes most assured of his freendeship
PAGET,58.017.526

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so do we make accompt of him as our chiefest well willer .
PAGET,58.017.527

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye nede not <paren> quoth he </paren> to doubt therof PAGET,58.017.528

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but we must do our thinges with respect temporising them as tyme and
occasion serveth PAGET,58.017.529

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but within this viij monethes or ten at the furthest ye shall see what
will folowe . PAGET,58.017.530

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And haue an eye <paren> quoth he </paren> to your thinges this yere
<paren> which woordes he repeted sundry tymes throughout his talke
</paren> PAGET,58.017.531

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and doubt ye not but ye shall afterwarde haue thassistence of your
freendes . PAGET,58.017.532

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And here taking occasion to set furth the French vnfrendly procedinges
towardes thempereur I shewed him that considering thempereurs prudence
and his circumspection it was in vain for me <paren> if I wer of
abilite therto as I am not </paren> to go about to perswade them to
looke to their thinges in tyme who I knewe did both forsei and provide
for all eventes much better then I could conceiue . PAGET,58.017.533

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But yet <paren> quoth I </paren> the desyre I haue to see thempereur
and his posterite prosper maketh me wishe that the French wer prevented
who as I am sure ye knowe well ynough do gape howrely for thempereurs
death <paren> whose lief I wishe to be long </paren> so ceasse they not
to practise with sundry princes both-7 of Germanye and other where to
be on their syde tabate the prince of Spaines power hoping then to haue
a faire tyme to work their feate . PAGET,58.017.534

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And after I had spent sum while in discoursing this mater vnto him
touching by the waye in particularites aswell as my wit wold serve me
such thinges as for the well setting furth of the mater I thought
metest to be remembred he aunswered me <P_59> that in dede it was not
vnknowen to thempereur that the French vsed these practises which he
wold not overpas in silence when he might sei his tyme .
PAGET,59.017.535

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But , quoth he , thempereur as ye knowe hath lately ben much troubled
with Germanye PAGET,59.017.536

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and albeit he hath thankes be to God brought thestates there to good
termes of obedience yet wold he gladly before he procede to any other
entreprise put sum surer staye there which after his sonne $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} settled here he mindeth to go about and hopeth to bring
it to passe or it be viij monethes to an ende , PAGET,59.017.537

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and then shall ye perceiue what his meaning is towardes Fraunce .
PAGET,59.017.538

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I perceiue Monsieur Granuele , quothe I , that ye wold willingly
overpas this yere without stirring towardes the Frenche and in the
meane while settle your thinges in Germanie . PAGET,59.017.539

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But yet me semeth <paren> quoth I </paren> seing thempereur hath alredy
brought thestate of Germanie to such passe as their bodyes ar holy at
his will and commaundement wanting non other thing for their perfit
obedience then the consent of their will and hartes which $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} be so soudenly obteyned without sum length of tyme the
nerest waye to bringe them herunto is to take awaye the occasion that
might encourage their bodyes talienate their mindes and good willes
from him amonges which no faile the chiefest is their hope in the
French whose practise perhaps might stirre sum innovation if he be not
in tyme looked vnto and abated . PAGET,59.017.540

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye say true <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,59.017.541

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I promise you their doinges do well declare their good meaning
towardes vs PAGET,59.017.542

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but I mistrust not they shall be well ynough prevented .
PAGET,59.017.543

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And here tooke he occasion both to set furth the prince of Spaines
towardnes and habilitie to guide his thinges whatsoeuer shuld happen of
his father and also to dispraise with most biting woordes the French
and their double dealing . PAGET,59.017.544

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I wisse <paren> quoth I </paren> the French haue not this opinion of
youe PAGET,59.017.545

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for in their discourses they let not taffirme that ye ar much better
French then English if for non other respect at the least bicaus ye ar
their neighbour in Bourgoyn where if any stirre be betwen thempereur
and them they think ye shalle first feele it and therefor wold ye
willingly haue them your freendes as long as might be .
PAGET,59.017.546

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ye saye true in dede <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,59.017.547

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
the good hope I haue of the French freindship and the trust I haue to
kepe my thinges in Bourgoyn in quiet haue made me make so small
reconyng of them that I haue now lately bought certain possessions here
in these quarters where I minde er it be long to settle myself , such
is my desyre of their neighbourly frendeship . PAGET,59.017.548

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And as for thempereur my master his maieste when he hath settled his
thinges will I doubt not declare thoccasion they haue gyven him to
desyre their amite . PAGET,59.017.549

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I wisse when tyme $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} I haue my slevefuls of
querels to breake with <P_60> them PAGET,60.017.550

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and in the meane while if they attempt any thing towardes youe be ye
sure thempereur tendereth the king his good brothers thinges so much as
they shall well perceiue his maieste will not forsake youe as even now
I shewed youe he gave them a while sence plainly tunderstande .
PAGET,60.017.551

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I touched further in this talke vnto him those pointes that your grace
in your last lettre willed vs to put furth <font> viz. </font> the
restraint of saufconduites , which in dede by the woordes of the
treatye aught not to be graunted of any of both parties . The commun
ennemite for the surprise of any pece of either partie which I said
thempereur having more to looke to then we ought the rather tembrace ,
and the mater of inuasion with les nombre then is prescribed in the
treatye . PAGET,60.017.552

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
He aunswered first to the graunting of saufconduites when I demaunded
how he vnderstode the woordes of the treatye PAGET,60.017.553

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
that said he thought neither part ought to graunte any PAGET,60.017.554

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therfore graunt you none <paren> quoth he </paren> PAGET,60.017.555

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and for our partes we will not gyve any . PAGET,60.017.556

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to surprise of any pece of either prince he said that like as
thempereur for his parte toke the king my masters thinges to touche him
so nere as he wold not faile to haue the same regard to them that he
hath to his own , so mistrusted he not but the kinges maieste wold also
haue the same respect towardes his maiestes thinges and considre that
the losse of the same $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but turne to his
discommodite . PAGET,60.017.557

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
As to the mater of inuasion he said that the same mater was at Vtrecht
put furth by our men desyring to haue the nombre of those that shuld
invade moderated to v=M= PAGET,60.017.558

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but God forbid <paren> quoth he </paren> that either you or we shuld at
any time be so weke as we might not be able to withstande viij thousand
of our enemyes without troubling of our freendes PAGET,60.017.559

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and for my part in respect of both princes honnours I wold be right
loth our back freendes shuld perceiue this mater to be put in question
. PAGET,60.017.560

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But <paren> quoth he </paren> these thinges $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
moved to thempereur and aunswered with the rest at thempereurs cumming
to the Gaunt where <paren> as I haue shewed youe </paren> he trusteth
to dispeche youe to your satisfaction . PAGET,60.017.561

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Herof we haue thought good taduertise your grace bicaus he talked so
frankly with vs as semed to vs gret mervaill . PAGET,60.017.562

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And yet for all that it is not woordes can pleas me except I sei sum
dedes folowe wherwith if they cum not of very shortly I sei not but
this my tarying here now all most a moneth in this sort may serve them
to gret purpose els where and peraduenture do no good to your
procedinges in other places which I doubte not your grace doth considre
and will enforme me of your pleasur therin which I will not faile to
folowe accordingly . PAGET,60.017.563

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
The bruites dayly do encreace here of your doinges at home more and
more . PAGET,60.017.564

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I beseche God to quiete them and put in your graces minde to do that
which may be the surety of the kinges maieste preservation of the state
of the realme and your own honnour <P_61> which no man desireth more
then we do for our partes and wold willingly to that effect spende the
best blood in our bodyes . PAGET,61.017.565

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Allost the xijth of July 1549 . PAGET,61.017.566

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your graces most humbly at commaundement William Paget PAGET,61.017.567

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_017:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Phelyp Hoby PAGET,61.017.568

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_018> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_PETRE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1506>

<P_61>

{ED:36._[TO_PETRE.]_GHENT._13_JULY,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Master secretary , with my most harty commendacions I thanke you
lykewise for your gentle lettres of aduertisement praying you though
youe shall not haue convenient leisor to write so often to me how
thinges go there as you woold yet to cause your clerk to take sum payne
therin PAGET,61.018.569

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and your lettres beyng delyuered to Master Mason he will by thordinary
post send them to Calles from whens cumyth hither one or other dayly .
PAGET,61.018.570

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I long to heare wheder all thinges be appeased well , which wold be
moch to my confort . PAGET,61.018.571

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And these men heare I meane the gretist seme to desyre it moche
PAGET,61.018.572

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for Granuele at our beyng with hym did sum what toche it uppon occasion
of thexcuse for our delay in that themperor for thestablishement of his
sonne had sumwhat to do among these people which be sumwhat rude
<paren> quoth he </paren> and if themperer had not at the begynnyng
drawen his swerde and shewed authorite the thinges he doth with them
now woold not haue bene brought to passe and now thankes be to God he
hath as obedient subgettes of them as ever prince had .
PAGET,61.018.573

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Mary , we here say that your commyns at home font grand barbularye
PAGET,61.018.574

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but it is nothing <paren> sayth he </paren> if Monsieur Protector
steppe to it betyme and travaile in person as thempereur hymself did
with the sworde of justice in his hand . PAGET,61.018.575

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
We told hym the mater was at appoynt PAGET,61.018.576

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and made litle of it how hevy so ever our hartes tooke it
PAGET,61.018.577

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so he passed the matter in shewyng PAGET,61.018.578

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
how moche themperor the kinges prosperite in all his thinges both at
home and abrode ar at more length is tooched in our lettre to my lordes
grace PAGET,61.018.579

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and therfor I omitt to write any more of it to you but only desyring to
be fully answered in euery thing wherof I wrote by my seruant to you .
PAGET,61.018.580

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I byd you most hartely well to fare PAGET,61.018.581

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
from Gawnt the xiijth of July 1549 . PAGET,61.018.582

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your own Paget PAGET,61.018.583

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PETRE:MALE:_:1506:43
LETTER:PAGET_018:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I pray you let me know how far forth you ar in your enterfore at
Aberlady , which I haue had sum tochyng thenemyes eyther haue taken or
mynd to take . PAGET,61.018.584

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_019> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_EDWARD_SEYMOUR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1500?>

<P_75>

{ED:40._TO_SOMERSET._MY_CHAMBER._6_AUGUST,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , because I se your grace so muche troubled with these melancoly
matters whereby memory is sometyme empeched , I haue thought it my
duetie to put your grace in remembraunce to refresh your selfe and your
spyrites as muche as youe can devise , and then to laye before your
eyes the state which youe stand in at this present . And what will by
all lykelihode folowe the same which for my knovledge ys this .
PAGET,75.019.585

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Youe haue to maintayne contynually during the warres great nombers of
men against Scotland , great garrison against Fraunce both-1 by land
and sea , and no small power thorough your realme , for the reducynge
of the same to the kinges obedience . All which can not be furnished
with out great sommes of money wherof what store your grace hath I
knowe litle , PAGET,75.019.586

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but if youe haue sufficient thankes be to God all $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} well . PAGET,75.019.587

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But if youe want <paren> which I feare </paren> then for Goddes sake
caste your charges aforehand PAGET,75.019.588

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and take suche wayes vpon depe consideration of the matter as if youe
shall see that youe shall not be able to go throughe with the
maintenaunce of all that youe haue begonne , yet then that maye be
lefte of which we maye beste spare , PAGET,75.019.589

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and aboue all thinges regard the kepinge safe of the state at home ,
how soeuer for necessitie youe do with thinges abrode . Whereof I doubt
not but your grace will haue consideracion , and throughly debate with
yourselfe or otherwise , as youe shall <P_76> thincke beste the matter
accordingly . PAGET,76.019.590

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Almightie God sende youe his grace and power in all your doinges et
cetera . PAGET,76.019.591

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_SEYMOUR:MALE:_:1500?:49?
LETTER:PAGET_019:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
W. P_NPR . PAGET,76.019.592

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_020> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_GEORGE_BROOKE> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1497?>

<P_79>

{ED:42._TO_LORD_COBHAM._HAMPTON_COURT._3_OCTOBER,_1549.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
My Lorde . With my right harty commendacions . I haue receaved your
sundry lettres by one {ED:whereof_CROSSED_OUT} of the which I perceave
your desire for licence to repayre over for a tyme to ordre your own
thinges . PAGET,79.020.593

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
My mynde wherein I haue tolde to Wylkyns who I doubte not will reaporte
the same vnto youe and I thinke good that your Lordship abyde tyll
Alhalowetyde at which tyme without any further troobling or writing to
my lord protectors grace youe maye vse the benefite of his graces
lettres , which he writes vnto youe and take the same for a licence for
so it is . So that {ED:after_CROSSED_OUT} against that tyme youe may
come over and nede not tary {ED:TWO_WORDS_DELETED_AND_ILLEGIBLE} for
any further leave . PAGET,79.020.594

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Tooching your soonnes sute I vnderstande it not otherwise , thenne to
be discharged from Bulloyn , in which parte I will do as $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} convenyent , PAGET,79.020.595

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and because he hath a good while syrued an evell master , and one that
could not do so muche for him as his desire was , I haue putt him to a
bettre that is to the kinges maieste , who hath accepted him ,
PAGET,79.020.596

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and is sworne squyer for the body . PAGET,79.020.597

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I praye God sende him as well to do as I woolde myn own soonne ,
PAGET,79.020.598

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and as for God will to do him good , there shall not want in me whereof
he maye be assured . PAGET,79.020.599

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thus hartely I bidde your Lordship fare well PAGET,79.020.600

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
from Hamptoncourte the iiird of Octobre 1549 . PAGET,79.020.601

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:GEORGE_BROOKE:MALE:_:1497?:52?
LETTER:PAGET_020:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships most assured to my power William Paget PAGET,79.020.602

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_021> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_JOHN_DUDLEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1527?>

<P_98>

{ED:58._TO_WARWICK._BOULOGNE._15_MARCH,_1549-50.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
My lord , we haue agreed uppon a peax although not with so good
condicions as we could haue wished yet within the lymittes of our
instructons and sumwhat better in sum thing and myht peraventure haue
bene moche better in many thinges if peax and warre had bene so
indifferent to vs as we myght haue aventured sumtyme
{ED:to_have_broken_off_CROSSED_OUT} or to haue staunden in thinges
aboue our instructons therby to haue cum to the best in our instructons
PAGET,98.021.603

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but this men haue feared to do doubting the worst . PAGET,98.021.604

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And therfor haue , folowyng our instructons taken what we may , seyng
we can not haue that we woold contenting our selfs till God send better
, wherof by his grace for my part I doubt nothing vtterly perswading to
my self that peax is the furst degre to it . PAGET,98.021.605

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And as for the other degrees if your lordship and the rest of my lordes
shall please to steppe , there is no doubt but you may shortly get up
to the highest steppe , I meane the commyn welth & estate of the realme
may be browght to a perfait & happy estate . And the rather if the
begynning the progresse & end of euery thing be depely forseen
considered and provided for bycause
{ED:we_haue_in_our_commyn_lettres_specially_toched_the_poyntes_of_our_a
grement_and_also_haue_determined_to_depeche_to_your_lor_the_kinges_maje
ste_and_your_lordships_mr_mason_CROSSED_OUT} Master Mason is a
sufficient messanger to declare everything of our procedinges at more
length . PAGET,98.021.606

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I forbeare to molest your lordship lenger PAGET,98.021.607

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but with myn humble comendacions to the same and to my good lady I pray
God send you and al yours aswel to do as I wish to my self .
PAGET,98.021.608

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
From Bullen the xvth of March 1549 . PAGET,98.021.609

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships most assured to commaunde during lief . William Paget
PAGET,98.021.610

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Post script . PAGET,98.021.611

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tel wheder I shall now please or displease
Master Mason , PAGET,98.021.612

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DUDLEY:MALE:_:1527?:22?
LETTER:PAGET_021:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but for the service of the king I think <paren> vnder correcton
</paren> that if you haue not otherwise determined he shall do well for
a yere in the place of thambassador in Fraunce . PAGET,98.021.613

<Q_PAG_C_1551_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_022> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_101>

{ED:61._TO_WILLIAM_CECIL._DRAYTON._31_JULY,_1551.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Master secretarye , I commende me hartely vnto youe PAGET,101.022.614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and havinge the bringer herof Master Chamberlains man brought lettres
from his master vnto my lordes of the cownsaill beinge desirous to
retorne againe , he wolde be gladde to haue <paren> if nothinge ells
</paren> but three wordes to his master with hym , to declare that he
hathe made the deliuerye of theim , wherin me thinkes youe shulde do
well to helpe hym to his expedicion . PAGET,101.022.615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
I am glad of your amendement PAGET,101.022.616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and do desyre to here how Master Peter doth . Wherof you may do me
pleasyr to aduertise me if you know ought of his estate .
PAGET,101.022.617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And as for myn it hath bene troublous inowgh by reason of this new
sicknes wherof thankes be to God I haue bene clere these ij weekes but
yet dare not resort to the courte aswel for that at my departing I was
appoynted to absent my self til I wer sent for , as also bycause
yesterday one of my servauntes swet <paren> he sayth it was vppon a
surfett </paren> and two others also in this village swete yesterday so
as I mynd vppon Monday to remove to my soone Lees house there to take
clene ayer for a sevenyght or x dayes trustyng that myn absence $will
$be {TEXT:welbe} taken in better parte then {in}_P my boldnes to cum to
the courte shuld be , except I wer otherwise appoynted by my lordes
wherin , bycause I wer lothe to offend , I pray you know sumthing & let
me here from you . PAGET,101.022.618

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
I woold haue written also to the master of thorse herin but that I here
him to be absent thens . PAGET,101.022.619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Thus I byd you hartely wel to fare PAGET,101.022.620

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
from Drayton the last of July 1551 . PAGET,101.022.621

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_022:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Your own assured frend William Paget PAGET,101.022.622

<Q_PAG_C_1551_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_023> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_102>

{ED:62._TO_WILLIAM_CECIL._DRAYTON._28_AUGUST,_1551.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary , I thank you with all my hart for your aduertisement
this daye PAGET,102.023.623

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and pray you to helpe myn excuse to my lordes which is vnfayned ,
PAGET,102.023.624

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
for otherwise I wold not willingly be so long from seyng of my master
his maieste beyng so nere within v myles of my house .
PAGET,102.023.625

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
This berar my servaunt Litle is sent from me of purpose to declare the
cause of myn absence , albeit you haue partly sum knowledge therof
before . PAGET,102.023.626

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And so I byd you most hartely well to fare , praying you to let me
knowe my lordes pleasyr for my cumyng or taryng . PAGET,102.023.627

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
The matter wherof you write might haue bene done better vppon the furst
proclamacion of the money then now PAGET,102.023.628

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and then shuld two kynd of men haue bene only touched with it .
PAGET,102.023.629

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
From Drayton the xxviijth of August 1551 . PAGET,102.023.630

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Your vnfayned frende to my power William Paget PAGET,102.023.631

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
There can not be wel one prise of thinges in all shyres .
PAGET,102.023.632

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And the people which ar in money matters <paren> as in all others
</paren> to wise and know the just valew of your money look to haue
them full to the old fynes . PAGET,102.023.633

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And besides other incommodities which they fynde they want that pece of
money which is most currant within the realme <font> viz </font> a
grote , PAGET,102.023.634

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_023:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and they fare now as a boye that looks to be jerked never quyet til
they be past theyr payne . PAGET,102.023.635

<Q_PAG_C_1551_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_024> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_102>

{ED:63._TO_WILLIAM_CECIL._DRAYTON._3_SEPTEMBER_1551.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretarye , I commende me moste hartelye vnto youe .
PAGET,102.024.636

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And because I sent youe vpon Sondaie by Sir Edward Warner a lettre with
an other to Master Cheeke and since do here nothinge eyther of the
deliverie of thone or thother , I have thoughte goode to write vnto
youe these few woordes PAGET,102.024.637

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and therby do praye youe to let me know whider youe have received the
same or not , and if youe have , to aduertise me what answere Master
Cheeke made vnto my lettre , wherby youe shall do me pleasure .
PAGET,102.024.638

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
I wrote to Master Cheke for his lettre to the baylif of Rislip to sell
me forty or fifty tymbre trees out of the wooddes belonging to the
Kinges College in Cambridge which may be spared very well
PAGET,102.024.639

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
and prayd you to further my sute and to send me answer therof .
PAGET,102.024.640

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
And thus I byd you hartely well to fare PAGET,102.024.641

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
from Drayton the iijrde of Septembre 1551 . PAGET,102.024.642

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:31
LETTER:PAGET_024:E1:1551:COPY:OTHER
Your harty frend most assuredly . William Paget PAGET,102.024.643

<Q_PAG_C_1552_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_025> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_103>

{ED:64._TO_SIR_WILLIAM_CECIL._MY_HOUSE._23_OCTOBER,_1552.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary , your frendshippe hath bene and is such towardes me
as I am therby encouraged to pray you to tak occasion <paren> if youe
may conveniently </paren> this night to shew {ED:exhibit_CROSSED_OUT}
on my behaulf to my lord chamberlayn this my submission and
supplicacion conteyned togidre in one in this scedule herinclosed for
that knowyng hys lordship to be specially fauorable vnto me I wold not
willingly do any thing that shuld myslyke his iudgement .
PAGET,103.025.644

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
I woold haue come my self to hym therwithall but that I am evill at
ease prayng hym to take my vnfayned excuse in good parte .
PAGET,103.025.645

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
And I am so importune vppon you for the shewyng of my sayd writing to
my lord chamberlayn this night bycause I woold willingly present the
same to morow before dynner to the lordes of the counsail .
PAGET,103.025.646

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
And thus good Master Secretary assuryng my self of your frendship for
movyng of my lord chamberlayn to further such one of my sutes in
{ED:TORN} bill as he and you shall thynk best . I pray God send you
aswell to do as I woold myself . PAGET,103.025.647

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
From my howse this present xxiij th of Octobre 1552 . PAGET,103.025.648

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
To morrow mornyng I $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} bold to cum to you myself
and afterward visit my lord chamberlayn . PAGET,103.025.649

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:32
LETTER:PAGET_025:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
Your own assured to commaunde William Paget PAGET,103.025.650

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_026> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_MARY_TUDOR_I> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1516>

<P_115>

{ED:74._TO_MARY._BRUSSELS._25_APRIL,_1556.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
It may please your maiestie to bee advertised that arriving here upon
Munday before dinner , and having accesse to the kinges maiestie in the
afternoone I delivered to him your maiesties letters and ringes with
such commendacions on your maiesties behalfe as appertayned ; which his
maiestie received very gladly and chearefully , not a little glad to
heare of your good estate , much inquisitiue <P_116> how your maiestie
did , how you had your health , and whither you were well againe in
such sort as it seemed vnto mee that hee had bin advertized that you
had bin lately sicke . PAGET,116.026.651

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I answered that your maiestie was now meetly well againe ;
PAGET,116.026.652

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
marry the newes I thought which your maiesty had of the king of Bohems
comming hither had troubled you beeing before in a certaine expectation
to haue seene his maiestie shortly , PAGET,116.026.653

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and here I tooke occasion to say what mee thought for that time
convenient touching his long absence out of England ; wherevnto his
maiestie said , that hee was not a little sorry to haue had such
occasion to tarry here as had chanced , trusting <paren> hee said
</paren> that your maiestie had well vnderstood , and by your wisedome
waighed and considered the same . PAGET,116.026.654

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
The next day his maiestie of his great benignity takeing the paine to
haue mee through the parke to the emperour , and to present mee to his
maiestie I delivered to him your maiesties letters and ringes with such
commendations and other good wordes as is between your maiesties
convenient , which hee tooke in most thankefull manner , desiring also
much to vnderstand of your good estate , wherevnto after I had on your
maiesties behalfe declared the cause of my comming vnto him , likewise
congratulated with him his truce with such words as the matter required
. PAGET,116.026.655

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I answered that your maiestie did indifferently well as one might doe
yt wanted of that you loved aboue all earthly things ;
PAGET,116.026.656

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I haue heard <paren> said hee </paren> that shee hath bin lately sicke
, PAGET,116.026.657

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and named the sicknes to mee , PAGET,116.026.658

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
it was then <paren> quoth I </paren> sir , vpon advertisement of some
new occasion of delay of the kinges comming over . PAGET,116.026.659

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
It is true you say <paren> quoth hee </paren> PAGET,116.026.660

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and turning his speech to them who sate by and might heare our
communication said , I thinke it was the newes of the king of Boheme
and my daughters comming downe . PAGET,116.026.661

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Shee writes to mee <paren> quoth the king </paren> to bring them over
with mee ; PAGET,116.026.662

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
that $can $not {TEXT:cannot} well bee <paren> quoth the emperour
</paren> PAGET,116.026.663

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
<paren> and turned his speech to mee againe </paren> PAGET,116.026.664

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
for besides many other great respects it would bee some occasion of
delay of my sons arrival in England . PAGET,116.026.665

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Wee feare <paren> quoth I </paren> that if busines may bee let of his
maiesties returne , that wee shall not haue him there shortly , but
that after the king of Bohems dispatch , there may arise some other new
occasion of delay . PAGET,116.026.666

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
And there I was so bold though your maiestie gaue mee no commission to
say as much as seemed to mee good , like as I haue done and will doe to
some others about the kinges maiestie for the necessary beeing of his
maiesty in England , not onely for the contentment and satisfaction of
your maiestie which I and every one of your honest servantes and
naturall subiectes ought to desire what is in him to that effect , but
also for that I am not ignorant how necessary his beeing in England is
aswell for that thing which should <P_117> bee comfort to all your good
subiectes , and for the benefit of your realme , as also for his owne
affayres here and in other places , trusting as his maiestie hath
graciously heard , so your maiestie will likewise interpret my doeinges
in this behalfe . PAGET,117.026.667

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
The emperour said which the king confirmed that no new matter should
stay his son here . PAGET,117.026.668

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
And the king coming homewardes told mee by the way , that , out of
doubt , hee would bee with you in the beginning of June : and would
come to you in post , leaving his traine to come after ;
PAGET,117.026.669

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and I beleiue verily that no new matter shall now stay him , his will
is such to bee with you . PAGET,117.026.670

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
And I was so bold in most humble wise to beseech his maiestie , because
diverse dayes had bin appointed before , not to appoint any more except
his maiestie might bee sure <paren> God willing </paren> to keepe the
appointment PAGET,117.026.671

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I trust within two or three dayes you shall heare from himselfe the
certaine time of his returne . PAGET,117.026.672

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
In the meane time I haue thought it my most bounden dutie to write thus
much to your maiestie , most humbly beseeching you to accept my meaning
in gracious part , which is none other then to serue your maiestie
truely to the best of my poore power as knoweth our Lorde , who send
your maiestie long to raigne over us in all honour and prosperitie .
PAGET,117.026.673

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
From Brussels the 25 th of Aprill in the morning 1556 PAGET,117.026.674

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:MARY_TUDOR_I:FEMALE:_:1516:40
LETTER:PAGET_026:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Postscript I haue delivered your maiesties lettres and ringes to the
queene dowager of France and Hungary and also to the duchess of
Lorraine with your highnes most harty commendations . PAGET,117.026.675

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_027> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_JAMES_BASSETT> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1526?>

<P_117>

{ED:75._TO_JAMES_BASSETT._TEMPLE_BAR._15_DECEMBER,_1556.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Master Basset , I thanke youe for your paines taken in shewing my
lettres to the qwenis maieste PAGET,117.027.676

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and according to her maiestes pleasure my lettre to the kinges maieste
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} ordred . PAGET,117.027.677

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
It is sufficient that her maieste findeth the fault , PAGET,117.027.678

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
for a fault it is wheresoever it be that those three thinges be not
done , PAGET,117.027.679

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and as for the iiijth I wolde to God it were done PAGET,117.027.680

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and better tyme shall their never be to do it then now
PAGET,117.027.681

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and by other meanes then hathe bene now talked of I dare boldely say it
can never be done , the determinacion wherof <P_118> resteth onely in
her maieste - PAGET,118.027.682

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
our lord put that into her hart that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} for the
best - PAGET,118.027.683

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
but in mans iudgement neither shall the prince of this realme nor the
clergie nor the noblemen nor gentlemen nor all other suche as lives
vpon certainties as all kinde of servauntes &c be hable to live
according to their estates nor the prince stand by his frendes nor shew
his face to thenemy til this $be $done {TEXT:bedone} ,
PAGET,118.027.684

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and I wold to Goddes passion that I were bounde to eate no fleshe this
xij monethes that the other three were done , PAGET,118.027.685

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and , alas , why shulde they not be done ? PAGET,118.027.686

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I can survey my lande PAGET,118.027.687

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and so can every other man and by making of leases , sales of wooddes ,
making of copies , grauntes of fermes and otherwise raise honest sommes
of money towardes my relief and haue my revenew brought home to my
house with a small charge . PAGET,118.027.688

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Why shuld the qwenis maieste not haue the like toching the order of hir
house &c ? PAGET,118.027.689

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I wolde not haue any one man that might be for hir maiestes honor or
other necessary service toched . PAGET,118.027.690

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Mary , I wolde haue that beggery mangery in corners and typling like
alehouses taken away and that rablement of raskalles that be in and
resort to the house avoided . PAGET,118.027.691

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I wold haue hir maieste furnished of wood and coles of hir owne wooddes
and vnderwooddes . PAGET,118.027.692

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Other men , if their fathers haue let out any fermes or pasture
groundes that were necessary for the finding of their houses , can be
contented , PAGET,118.027.693

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
ye , and will travaill , to redeme the same again into their owne hands
thoughe they pay more for them then they be presently worthe .
PAGET,118.027.694

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Why shulde not the quenis maieste redeme with liberall recompence
<paren> as other men wolde in like cases </paren> the grauntes of
herbages of necessary parkes and therehens furnishe hir self of befes ,
muttons , lambes and veales and the like of warrens for conies ,
PAGET,118.027.695

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and as for whete for ready mony she might be furnished for a noble a
quarter and malt of a reasonable price and for the rest of thinges good
husbandry vsed . PAGET,118.027.696

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I dare saye <paren> and I am sure their be of hir maiestes counsaill
whiche know this is to be proved </paren> that there is more drink
{ED:?} spent in a day in hir house , then taking out the tappe of a
vessell and letting it ronne still till it be ronne out
PAGET,118.027.697

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and so out of one vessell after an other all the day long I say more
dronke in a day then can ronne out . PAGET,118.027.698

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
This semis straunge PAGET,118.027.699

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and yet it is trewe , PAGET,118.027.700

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and my lorde of Winchestre decessed <paren> God haue his soule </paren>
proved it to be trew in the presence of some whiche liked him ever
after the worse for it PAGET,118.027.701

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
<paren> and as for thimprovement of her custumes by one meanes or other
I beleve might , if men wolde goo about , be brought to some good point
. PAGET,118.027.702

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
But what a fole am I to trouble youe with these maters and my self
bothe whiche are to be lefte to the consideracion of suche as of these
thinges bothe-6 haue the speciall charge and better meanes and credit
to furder the <P_119> accomplishement of them then I haue
PAGET,119.027.703

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and therfore I make an end with my harty commendacions bydding youe
aswell to fare as I wolde myself . PAGET,119.027.704

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
From my house by Temple Barre this xvth of Decembre 1556 .
PAGET,119.027.705

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_027:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I send youe my lettre because youe shall see I will conclude in it .
PAGET,119.027.706

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_028> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_JAMES_BASSETT> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1526?>

<P_119>

{ED:76._TO_JAMES_BASSETT._MY_HOUSE._NO_DATE._[PROBABLY_1556]}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Master Bassett , I thanke youe for shewing my lettre to the qwenis
maieste whiche I write to the duke of Savoye , PAGET,119.028.707

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Mary , so do I not for shewing of my lettre to Sir Ruy Gomes ,
PAGET,119.028.708

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
for it was no part of my meaning to haue her maieste troubled withall ,
as it semes by your lettre to me that her maieste is presupposing that
I shuld not thinke the kinges maieste wold comme if he might , whiche
is no pece of my thought , PAGET,119.028.709

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
nor my lettre purporth no such thing , PAGET,119.028.710

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
nor he to whome the lettre shulde haue bene writen wold <paren> I am
sure </paren> so haue conceived by the contynew of the lettre .
PAGET,119.028.711

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Thoughe I be not the wisest man , yet do I sumwhat vnderstande the
state of that countrey having aswell bene ambassador there in my dayes
half a dozen times as also otherwise both bene there and <paren> by all
meanes {by}_P I coulde </paren> travailed tunderstand the nature of the
people and the conduict of the state of the countrey .
PAGET,119.028.712

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
He to whome I wolde haue writen knoweth where I laye the fault
PAGET,119.028.713

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and wolde , I dare say , helpe the best he coulde to amend it .
PAGET,119.028.714

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
In the kinges maieste I thinke no fault PAGET,119.028.715

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
for I beleve <paren> as veryly as God is God </paren> that the king is
as good a husband as any man living . PAGET,119.028.716

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
But as it is no fault but one of the chiefest virtues in a king and one
of the pillers of his most assuraunce to followe thaduise of his
counsail , so durst I <paren> with the gracious suport and vndre the
correction I speke it of bothe their maiestes </paren> take vpon me to
prove against any one counsaillor his maieste hathe that it were more
expedient for his maiestes affaires that he were now rather present
here then there . PAGET,119.028.717

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Mary , I thinke his maieste being not so persuaded and knowing the
goodnes of his good wiefe to be suche that in respect of his affaires
she can be contented to forbeare his presence , differethe his coming
to thintent to come with his affaires well determined , wherfore I
forbeare to write the laste parte of my lettre and will amend the first
part toching the Darcyes according to your wryting PAGET,119.028.718

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and so I pray youe to shew hir maieste and to beseche her to take my
meaning in gracious part which is suche to her maieste to that good
king hir husbande and to this realme as I wold to Goddes passion she
coulde see into <P_120> the botome of my hart where my care and my
meaning liethe . PAGET,120.028.719

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I pray youe let me know hir maiestes pleasyr how long I shall forbeare
the court PAGET,120.028.720

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and procure as moche as youe can the depeche of Quarre who <paren>
because he was specially recommended to me by the duke of Savoye
</paren> sendethe to me every houre crying out for his dispatche
PAGET,120.028.721

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and even now one tellethe me he is here to speke with me for the same
purpose . PAGET,120.028.722

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Thus I leave to trouble youe PAGET,120.028.723

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and byd youe hartely well to fare . PAGET,120.028.724

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
RECIPIENT:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
LETTER:PAGET_028:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
From my house this Saturday . PAGET,120.028.725

<Q_PAG_C_1557_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_029> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1510>

<P_120>

{ED:77._MARGARET,_COUNTESS_OF_BATH._LONDON._30_JANUARY,_1556-7.}_COD E

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:47
LETTER:PAGET_029:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
After my right harty commendacions to your good ladishippe . I am veray
sory that it was not my chaunce to see your ladiship at your late beyng
here by reason of your short abode for that I was mynded to haue moved
a matter vnto you such as wherby my good will towardes you , and yours
myght haue appered and bene vnto bothe pleasur and commodite if the
same had taken effect . Lykeas it may do yet if it so shall lyke your
ladiship PAGET,120.029.726

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:47
LETTER:PAGET_029:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
for on my behaulf it is still desyred ernestly lykeas this berar my
servant Master Bedel your tenant will by my appoyntement open presently
vnto you praying your ladiship to credit hym and in effect to shew
yourself as desyrous of my poore frendship as I am desyrous to be
bownde to you . PAGET,120.029.727

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:47
LETTER:PAGET_029:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
And so I tak my leave of your ladiship wishing you aswell to $do
{TEXT:so} {COM:SIC?} as I wold myself . PAGET,120.029.728

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:47
LETTER:PAGET_029:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
From London the xxx th of January 1556 . PAGET,120.029.729

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:47
LETTER:PAGET_029:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
Your ladiship assured to commaunde , William Pagett PAGET,120.029.730

<Q_PAG_C_1557_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_030> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1500?>

<P_121>
{ED:80._THOMAS_THIRLBY,_BISHOP_OF_ELY,_AND_SIR_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD._B
INDSTON._28_AUGUST,_1557.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
After my right harty commendacions I haue received your lettres which
were deliuered to me in the way hitherwarde , PAGET,121.030.731

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
and for answer to the same these may be to signify vnto youe that
likeas I am and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} ready to the best of my power to
do all thinges for thavauncement of the qwenis maiestes service , so I
trust I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} excused though I give not so sodenly
advise in the mater wherof youe write , PAGET,121.030.732

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
for surely I nother dare presume being ignorant how the qwenis maieste
is disposed to or fro the same PAGET,121.030.733

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
nor yet am I now hable to do it considering the weight of the mater ,
and that I myself these vj wekes haue thought nothing of the mater nor
bene with youe and others of the counsaill to heare what might haue
bene said to or fro the setting forwarde of the same .
PAGET,121.030.734

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
But this I thinke <paren> vnder correction </paren> that this <P_122>
tyme of the yere is the best tyme to do the thing if thinges mete for
the purpose had bene put in arredines before hande , and then some of
those courses which by your lettres seme to be lettes wold haue
furthered the mater moche , PAGET,122.030.735

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
and saving reformacion I thinke not those courses to be courses of let
, PAGET,122.030.736

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
and if they be then will the thing that youe write to be so necessary
never be brought to passe PAGET,122.030.737

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
for those causes or such like are and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} ever to be
alledged &c . PAGET,122.030.738

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
Youe two and I were named commissioners toching that mater ,
PAGET,122.030.739

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
but hitherto yet had we nother commission vnder the great seale nor
instructions signed by her maieste nor other declaracion by mowthe how
farforthe we shuld procede sufficient for our discharge .
PAGET,122.030.740

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
And we either to haue sued for a commission or to haue presented one of
our owne making had not bene wisdome in suche a case .
PAGET,122.030.741

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
I trust to see youe ere it be long at London , PAGET,122.030.742

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
for now I am enforced to remaine here for a while for sum rest , being
as evill in all the partes of my body at this present <paren> saving
the swelling in my legges is not so moche </paren> as I was at my going
to the baines . PAGET,122.030.743

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
Suche as haue experience of those waters haue tolde me of two
properties in their operacion , the one that strait after the leving to
resort to them the persone greved shall for a tyme fele himself very
ill and the other that after a monethe he shall finde great ease and
benefite by them , and if he returne againe to the vse of them in the
spring parfaict healthe . PAGET,122.030.744

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
The first propertie I am sure I fele ; PAGET,122.030.745

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
I pray God I may finde the other . PAGET,122.030.746

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
And thus being my fingers so lame with wryting that I can no longer
hold the penne I take my leave of youe , wishing youe aswell to do as I
wolde my self . PAGET,122.030.747

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:52
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_THIRLBY[&_FRANCIS_ENGLEFIELD]:MALE:_:1500?:57?
LETTER:PAGET_030:E1:1557:COPY:OTHER
From Bindston the xxviijth of August 1557 . PAGET,122.030.748

<Q_PAG_C_1558_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_031> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1510>

<P_122>

{ED:81._MARGARET,_COUNTESS_OF_BATH._PAGET_PLACE,_LONDON._24_JUNE,_15
58.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
With my verey harty commendacions vnto your good ladishippe . It may
like the same to vnderstand that vpon the good happe of my doughter
Kitsons comyng hither , my doughter Lee the next morning after was
brought to bed of a goodly boye God save her , and was therwithall
moche weakened , but now thankes be to God doth fele her self moche
amended . PAGET,122.031.749

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
My doughter Kytson hathe made instaunce vnto me for her retorne downe
vnto your ladishippe , PAGET,122.031.750

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
and notwithstanding forasmoche as she is still troubled as she was
before her going thither with the greine sicknes , I am bould to kepe
her <P_123> still with me here , where there is the best remedy to be
had therfore , for which purpose I do vse the advise of the best
learned in Englande , not doubting but that she shall be remedied
therof , PAGET,123.031.751

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
and that done which I truste shall not be long vnto , I will send her
downe vnto youe , oneles my sonne Kitson will like to come for her
himself . PAGET,123.031.752

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
In the meane tyme I beseche your ladiship to be contented to beare with
her absence and to desire my sonne Kitson to do the like ,
PAGET,123.031.753

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
and if your ladiship will licence him to come hither he shall be
hartely wellcome and haue such grosse chere , as he knoweth .
PAGET,123.031.754

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
And thus with my verey harty commendacions vnto my good lorde and the
like from my wief vnto your good ladyship and him , I take my leave .
PAGET,123.031.755

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
From Paget Place the xxiiij th of June 1558 . PAGET,123.031.756

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:53
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_BOURCHIER[N.DONNINGTON]:FEMALE:_:1510:48
LETTER:PAGET_031:E1:1558:COPY:OTHER
Your good ladiships most assured to commaund . William Pagett
PAGET,123.031.757

<Q_PAG_C_1559_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_032> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_132>

{ED:90._TO_SIR_WILLIAM_CECIL._MY_HOUSE._5_MARCH,_1558-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_032:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary . Forasmochas there is a bruit that it is like to be
peace , I thought good herby to put youe in remembraunce , that <P_133>
wheras in every traictie there is a commun article making mencion of
free commercium and passage per maria et per aquas dulces . Incase the
quenis maiestes pleasure be to contynue thincrease of her custume vpon
wine and clothe , according to the order already taken , it shall not
be amisse <paren> in myne opinion </paren> that these wordes Saluis
tamen vnicuique principium suis legibus aedictis et priuilegiis
quibuscunque be inserted to the traictie , wherby there may bothe
commodite arise to her maieste in sort aforesaid , and otherwise .
PAGET,133.032.758

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_032:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
And so I take my leave of youe . PAGET,133.032.759

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_032:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
From my house this v th of Marche 1558 . PAGET,133.032.760

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_032:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
Your verey frende William Pagett PAGET,133.032.761

<Q_PAG_C_1559_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_033> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_WILLIAM_CECIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1520>

<P_133>

{ED:91._TO_SIR_WILLIAM_CECIL._MY_HOUSE._17_MARCH,_1558-9.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
Master Secretary . After my very harty commendacions . I haue forborne
to trouble youe with my writing , for that I know youe are otherwise
busied PAGET,133.033.762

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
and likeas I haue alwayes bene bould of your frendship , so I am now
occasioned to pray youe of the same : PAGET,133.033.763

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
My Lord Williams of Tame is very sicke and not like to recover , for
whose office of presidentship in Wales , I shall pray youe to ioyne
with Master Treasurer on my behalfe , to whom I haue writen to that
effect , nothing doubting your furtheraunces to the perfection of the
sute . PAGET,133.033.764

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
And thene ceassing to clog youe with wordes , I haue prayed Master
Waade briefly to breake my mynd vnto youe . PAGET,133.033.765

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
From my house this Friday the xvij th of Marche 1558 .
PAGET,133.033.766

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:54
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_CECIL:MALE:_:1520:39
LETTER:PAGET_033:E1:1559:COPY:OTHER
Your very frende William Pagett PAGET,133.033.767

<Q_PAG_C_1563_T_WPAGET> <L_PAGET_034> <A_WILLIAM_PAGET> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1505> <R_MATTHEW_PARKER> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1504>

<P_134>

{ED:94._MATTHEW_PARKER,_ARCHBISHOP_OF_CANTERBURY._TEMPLE_BAR._13_MAR
CH,_1562-3.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
Sir , I beseach your grace to pardon my boldenes determyned to make
sewte vnto youe for the presentacion of an honest man vnto a benyfice
nowe voyde , and of your graces gyfte in Kente , PAGET,134.034.768

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
I am hereunto encouraged by your graces old good will and favor vnto me
, renewed nowe of late and confyrmed by your gentle vsage of me :
PAGET,134.034.769

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
The benefice wherof I desire to have the presentacion is called Ivie ,
PAGET,134.034.770

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
the partie whome I desire to have presented is the mynister of Itham ,
in Kente called John Hooper a learned and honest man , and so taken
amongest his neighbours . PAGET,134.034.771

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
If yt shall please your grace to satysfie my desire , youe maie accompt
the obligacion of my good will vnto youe muche encreased and me readie
to discharge and paie the same at your own apoinctement yf occasion
shall so serve me . PAGET,134.034.772

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
And thus I take my leave of your grace . PAGET,134.034.773

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
From my poore howse besides Temple Barre this xiij th of Marche 1562 .
PAGET,134.034.774

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:58
RECIPIENT:MATTHEW_PARKER:MALE:_:1504:59
LETTER:PAGET_034:E1:1563:COPY:OTHER
Your graces most assured at commaundement William Paget
PAGET,134.034.775

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_ASEYMOUR> <L_PAGET_035> <A_ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1497> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_135>

{ED:A._DUCHESS_OF_SOMERSET_TO_PAGET._NO_PLACE._8_OCTOBER,_1549.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Good Master Comptroller , I have receaved commendacons from yow by my
brother , for which I geve yow thankes from a sorrowfull hart as ever
woman had . PAGET,135.035.776

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ah , good lorde , what a miserable vnnaturall tyme is this ?
PAGET,135.035.777

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
What hath my lorde done to any of these noble men ? or others ? that
they shulde thus rage and seke thextremitie to him and his that never
had thought in the like towardes any of them . PAGET,135.035.778

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Ha , Master Comptroller , I have ever loved and trusted youe , for that
I have seine in yow a perfyte honest frende to my lord who hath always
made the same accompt and assuredly bare yow his good will and
frendship as yow your selfe hath had best tryall . PAGET,135.035.779

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
God hath geven yow a great wisdome and a frendly nature .
PAGET,135.035.780

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
A , good Master Comptroller , for Christes bloodes sake spare not for
payne study and wryting as I here yow do , PAGET,135.035.781

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
the lyvinge God will prosper yow and yours the better .
PAGET,135.035.782

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I knowe yow maye do muche good in these matters beinge a wiseman .
PAGET,135.035.783

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Howe can God be content with this disorder to daungier the king and all
the realme in sekinge extremities . PAGET,135.035.784

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
God must nedes of his rightuousnes sore plage those that seketh these
matters . PAGET,135.035.785

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Oh , that I could bere this as I ought to do with patience and quietnes
, PAGET,135.035.786

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
but it passeth all fraile fleshe to do . PAGET,135.035.787

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
For knowynge so well my lordes innocency in all these maters that they
charge him with all , they be so vntrewe and most vnfriendly credyt
that surely it hath bene some wicked persone or persones that furst
sought this great vprore . PAGET,135.035.788

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I saye againe yf I could bere the tyme , I know well and assure my
selfe that God will kepe and defende him from all his enemies , as he
hath alwais done hitherto . PAGET,135.035.789

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Good Master Comptroller , comefort my lorde as I trust yow do , both
with counsaile and otherwise , PAGET,135.035.790

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for I muche feare he is sore greved at the hart , furst for the kinge
and the realme , and as greatly to se these lordes frendeshippes so
sclender to him as it doth appear and specially of some , albeit he
hath pleasured them all . PAGET,135.035.791

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Alas , that ever any Christian realme shulde be so sclaundered .
PAGET,135.035.792

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Thus to ende with all I crie to yow eftesones shewe youe ,
PAGET,135.035.793

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
shewe your selfe like a wurthie counsailour and a servaunt to God and
the kinge that these tumultes might cease . PAGET,135.035.794

AUTHOR:ANNE_SEYMOUR[N.STANHOPE]:FEMALE:_:1497:52
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_035:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Anne Somerset PAGET,135.035.795

<Q_PAG_C_1549_T_TSMITH> <L_PAGET_036> <A_THOMAS_SMITH_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1513> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_136>

{ED:B._THOMAS_SMITH_TO_PAGET._NO_PLACE._NO_DATE,_[OCTOBER,_1549].}_ @

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Sir , I furste commend me unto youe as humbly and hartely as I possibly
maye . PAGET,136.036.796

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And whereas I had thought that ye had taken , that already I had opened
all my harte unto youe , I perceive by a worde caste owt to my wiefe
that ye do not even fully take it so ; PAGET,136.036.797

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
furste that I euer conspired your deathe , or herde of any suche thinge
in my presence I do fully denye yt , and renounce God if euer I dyd ,
who nowe at this tyme hath moste nede to helpe me . PAGET,136.036.798

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I do not deny that on the Sundaye in the morninge I trowe it was or
Saturdaie late at night when my lordes grace fyrste opened this broile
unto me <paren> for ye knowe before I was away </paren> I told him if
it were so that youe did knowe what it was there was no doubte .
PAGET,136.036.799

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Then he told me that he had sente youe and Master Petres awaye ,
PAGET,136.036.800

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
to that I sayd , alas , Sir , then haue youe done evill
PAGET,136.036.801

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for there is no man so able to helpe it in the world as he is and could
better do yt , PAGET,136.036.802

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and if youe had had more of the counsaill about youe it had bene better
, PAGET,136.036.803

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
for the love of God staye him aboute youe , PAGET,136.036.804

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and I wold wishe Master Petres to . PAGET,136.036.805

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And herein vse their aduise , PAGET,136.036.806

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
all that remaynethe here ells hathe no experience . PAGET,136.036.807

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And ye shall be suer they will lesse attempte violence againste youe
havinge them here . PAGET,136.036.808

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
No , saithe he , I thincke he be as evill as the beste of them ;
PAGET,136.036.809

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
thoughe he be , Sir , quoth I , yet I am sure he will invent somethinge
for youe . PAGET,136.036.810

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Well , sayth my lorde , go your wayes PAGET,136.036.811

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and helpe Cicill to make some more of those lettres whiche he is a
makinge , PAGET,136.036.812

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and if he be not gone already , I will have him tary here .
PAGET,136.036.813

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
This is the moste that euer I spake of eny suche matter which I did
then because I thought it trewe . PAGET,136.036.814

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
Eny conspiringe or mocion to kille youe or any other , or that youe
shuld be commytted to Master Cotton , or any other I knowe not ,
PAGET,136.036.815

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and suerly yt was not my deuyse , PAGET,136.036.816

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
nor I was not made previe . PAGET,136.036.817

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
But as youe knowe in this trepidacion tumulte and broyle many wordes
might be spoken , PAGET,136.036.818

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and no man knoweth better then youe many moste fonde and false rumours
and tales be brought and spred to all parties . PAGET,136.036.819

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
I euer said <paren> I can not denye </paren> that youe knewe the lordes
hole intente and to what extremities yt wold come and what could be
already done . The which I dyd gesse of your naturall wisedome , longe
experience , and great familiaritie that ye haue had with them all ,
who I thought wold not hide so great a thinge from youe .
PAGET,136.036.820

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
This I praye youe persuade your selfe fully vpon me that I never sought
, nor could well to be sought the deathe of any persone .
PAGET,136.036.821

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
And if upon this suspicion , ye haue borne any grudge vnto me , I praye
youe forgeve yt me , PAGET,136.036.822

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and nowe extende your clemency and favour vnto me , the which God shall
rewarde PAGET,136.036.823

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and whiles I lyve ye shall haue me yours with my contynuall <P_137>
prayer and no vnkind nor unnaturall man ; PAGET,137.036.824

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
alas , it were small pleasure unto youe to caste me awaye , and to save
me and helpe me in these extremities a perpetuall benefite to bynde me
to youe and all my power and wytte . The which I praye youe let me
feale , as my trust is and as youe haue promysed unto my wife , whom
with my selfe and all that I haue I holly commend and commyt vnto youe
to dispose of at your pleasure , PAGET,137.036.825

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
and so take I my leave of youe for this tyme , tyll it shall please
youe to vouchesafe to speake with me . PAGET,137.036.826

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
This Frydaye . PAGET,137.036.827

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SMITH_2:MALE:_:1513:36
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:44
LETTER:PAGET_036:E1:1549:COPY:OTHER
T. Smythe PAGET,137.036.828

<Q_PAG_C_1552_T_APAGET> <L_PAGET_037> <A_ANNE_PAGET> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_PRIVY_COUNCIL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_--->

<P_139>

{ED:E._ANNE_PAGET_TO_THE_COUNCIL._NO_PLACE._[1552].}

AUTHOR:ANNE_PAGET:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:PRIVY_COUNCIL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PAGET_037:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
In mooste humble wise besechethe youre good lordships , youre dayly
oratrice Anne Paget to be good and gratious lordes vnto her husbande .
And wheras her saide husbande hathe submitted hym self to the clemencie
of the kinges maieste that it wolde please youe to be mediators vnto
his highenes to haue pity vpon hym and me and our poore childerne , and
to determyn a gratious & mercifull ende of our trouble having
consideracion of the poore state wherin we stande as by a schedule
herinclosed maye appeare vnto youe . PAGET,139.037.829

AUTHOR:ANNE_PAGET:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:PRIVY_COUNCIL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PAGET_037:E1:1552:COPY:OTHER
And we and our childerne with all ours shall as we be alredy moost
{ED:e} bownden dayly praye to God for the prosperous estate of his
mooste excellent maieste and of all youre good lordships long to indure
. PAGET,139.037.830

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_JBASSETT> <L_PAGET_038> <A_JAMES_BASSETT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1526?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_139>

{ED:F._JAMES_BASSETT_TO_PAGET._NO_PLACE._2_MAY,_1556.}

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
My very good lorde , my duety most humblie remembred .
PAGET,139.038.831

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I moved the quenes highnes at the departing of this bearer Master Twyno
your lordeshippes servaunt to vnderstande whither her highnes wold send
or wryte any thing to your lordship by hym , who answered that
forasmoche as her highnes felt not her selfe so wel as she myght wryte
to the kyng , her highnes thought it not convenient to sende any
lettres to any her subiect ther and none to his maiestie ,
PAGET,139.038.832

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and therfore to supplie her highnes lettres vnto you , she signified
her mynde to Master Peter by whom you shal perceive how thankfully her
maiestie taketh the service your lordship doth her there .
PAGET,139.038.833

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
And I thought not to pretermytte these few lynes to thentent your
lordship shold perceiue by me the cause whye her highnes wrote not vnto
you and also that I forgatte not your lordship . PAGET,139.038.834

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I do assure you at the wryting herof her maiestie was nothing in such
case as {in}_P {her_to_be} I wold wishe PAGET,139.038.835

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
for your lordship knoeth the only thing that wyl remedie her .
PAGET,139.038.836

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Thus having no occurences to advertise you other then this bearer can
declare by mouth , I take my leave in hast PAGET,139.038.837

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
the ij of May . PAGET,139.038.838

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_038:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships to commaunde James Basset . PAGET,139.038.839

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_JBASSETT> <L_PAGET_039> <A_JAMES_BASSETT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1526?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_139>

{ED:G._JAMES_BASSETT_TO_PAGET._NO_PLACE._14_NOVEMBER_[1556].}

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
After my most humble recommendacions to your good lordship , <P_140>
yesternight betwene vj and vij I receued your lordships lettre
PAGET,140.039.840

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and imediatly vpon the receipt therof being called for by the quenes
highnes vpon thoccasion of certeyn byls which her maiestie then signed
geving me order for the deliuering of them . I having then good
oportunytie and fearyng lest if I omytted the same I shold not haue so
convenient a tyme ageyn that night , I declared to her maiestie how I
had even then receued a pacquette from your lordship and not hauing the
laisor to peruse them being so sodenly after the receipt of them called
in vnto her highnes , PAGET,140.039.841

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
nevertheles being well assured that there was somewhat conteyned in the
same either to declare or to deliuer vnto her highnes , I dyd therfore
offre the same vnto her highnes to peruse if yt so stode with her
pleasure before I saw them myself which her highnes dyd
PAGET,140.039.842

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and when she came to that point in your lettre to Sir Ruy Gomes where
you make mencion that she ys contented that Darcye shall remayne in
saynctuary styll , her highnes said thereunto that she was not
absolutely resolued so but that he shold remayne only soo vntyll the
kynges comyng , wishing that your lordship shold so wryte it in your
lettre . PAGET,140.039.843

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Touching the rest of your so vehement persuasions to Sir Ruy Gomes to
be playne with your lordship the quenes highnes dyd nothing lyke ye
same at all PAGET,140.039.844

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and said that for her own parte she was most parfightely assured that
the kyngs maiestie dothe asmoche as in hym dothe possiblie lye for his
lyfe to procure his most spedy retorne , PAGET,140.039.845

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and therfor her highnes $can $not {TEXT:cannot} by any meanes endure
that any person shold speake or thinke otherwise of his maiestie and so
moche lesse endure that it shold be wrytten specially her maiestie
being priuie therunto . PAGET,140.039.846

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
And where her highnes and the counsell leekwise dothe conformablye
wryte that they confesse the kyng hath most iust & necessarye cause of
this his abode & that he wyl not as they are most assured differe the
same any one moneth lenger then of force & necessetie he nedes must yt
shuld contrary wise by your lettres appere that not only your self but
that the moste part here thought otherwise of his maiestie which to put
in his highnes hedde in her maiesties opinion may do hurte & no good
wherfor seing her highnes hath seen the contents of your lettre she
saithe that she $can $not {TEXT:cannot} in any wise suffre or be
pleased that they shuld passe in that sorte & even so commaunded me to
signifie vnto your lordship thus . PAGET,140.039.847

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Being glad of your lordships recouery & sory for the sycknes of your
servaunt of the small poxe wherby I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} my selfe
come to waight vpon your lordship as els I wold . I do for this tyme
most humbly take my leave in hast PAGET,140.039.848

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
the xiiij of Novembyr . PAGET,140.039.849

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Postscript . I do retorne herwith vnto your lordship ij lettres the one
from the kyng the other from Quarrey vnto you and also your own <P_141>
ij lettres the one to the duke of Savoy the other to Sir Ruy Gomes .
PAGET,141.039.850

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_039:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships at commaundement James Bassett PAGET,141.039.851

<Q_PAG_C_1556_T_JBASSETT> <L_PAGET_040> <A_JAMES_BASSETT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1526?> <R_WILLIAM_PAGET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1505>

<P_141>

{ED:H._JAMES_BASSETT_TO_PAGET._NO_PLACE._15_DECEMBER,_1556.}

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
After my most humble commendacions to your lordship . PAGET,141.040.852

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
I receved your lordships lettre yesterday in the afternowne with the ij
lettres enclosed in the same which I shewed to the quenes maiestie for
answer whereof her maiestie commaunded me to signifie vnto you that
seing you desyer her advyse she thinkethe in no wyse convenyent you
shold make any mencyon in them at all of those iiij poynts which you
declare the kynges maiesties presens here wold so greatly further .
PAGET,141.040.853

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Her maiestie ys of this opinion for ij respectes , PAGET,141.040.854

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
the one ys forasmoche as order was taken before the kyngs departure
hense for the doyng of iij of them whereof to mak mencion or to put the
kyng in remembrance thereof , before he myght be advertysed that they
were in dede donne according as order was taken they shold , yt is in
her heghenes judgement a shame and by no meanes convenyent ,
PAGET,141.040.855

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
the other resort that moveth her highnes ys that consideryng there ys
not leekwise any resolucion taken in the matter of money what $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} donne therein her maiestie dothe not thinke yt mete
to be tooched in your lettre before you could advertise the full
resolucion therof , PAGET,141.040.856

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and for these causes her maiestie wold you sholde in any wise omytte
the mencionyng of those iiij poynts in your lordships lettre , as not
convenyent to be spoken of before they were either executed or resolued
. PAGET,141.040.857

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
As for the matter of the marchaunts the same beyng a thing concluded
her highnes dothe very well lyke your advertisement thereof .
PAGET,141.040.858

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Touching the sending of your stuffe which remayneth here to Grenewich
her highnes , consideryng the same hathe contynued here styll , ys very
well pleased therewith so that you sende not any that comethe from your
house or where the infection hathe been PAGET,141.040.859

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
and considering this disease lyngerethe after this sort in your
lordships house her highnes feareth it therfore the more .
PAGET,141.040.860

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Thus being sorry for this new chaunce of your servants sycknes which
wyll prolong your lordships comyng to the courte somewhat the longer .
I wyll for this tyme most humblye take my leave in hast
PAGET,141.040.861

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
the 15 of Decembre . PAGET,141.040.862

AUTHOR:JAMES_BASSETT:MALE:_:1526?:30?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PAGET:MALE:_:1505:51
LETTER:PAGET_040:E1:1556:COPY:OTHER
Your lordships at commaundement James Bassett PAGET,141.040.863
