<B_PASTONK>

<Q_PAK_A_1603_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_001> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574> <R_MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_39>

{ED:1_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_MURIEL_KNYVETT}

{ED:16_February_1603}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right worshipfull my especiall good Lady Knyvett Ashwelthorp
geue theise PASTONK,39.001.1

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Madame entringe into a consideration of that great vse I haue for
my horses praesently and that this weather hindreth my plowe I
determined to take the opportunitie of the weather and make this
suddaine dispatch : wherfore I haue sente your Ladiships barly
containing in number fifteene combe and withall haue sent for the
residue of my mavlt giuing your Ladiship many thankes therfore
PASTONK,39.001.2

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I hope if you imploy it for seed it shall well serve your turne
PASTONK,39.001.3

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I haue already sovld some for that vse : PASTONK,39.001.4

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
As for sending in more barly <paren> I humbly thanke your Ladiship
</paren> PASTONK,39.001.5

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but my store will not so farr extend to the mavlting PASTONK,39.001.6

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Madame I much thanke your Ladiship that you will impart vnto mee a
matter of such secresy the knowledge wherof I doe no litle reioce at
PASTONK,39.001.7

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and pray that the successe may bee prosperous and the sequele
answerable to your good likings wherof there is no other likelihoode
your practical considerations being grovnded vpon good circumstances :
PASTONK,39.001.8

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I would to god our other sister were in as good forwardness which I
hope will shortly take place : PASTONK,39.001.9

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am determined god willing vpon fryday to goe to Dalham to accompany
my Brother to the assises where wee bee in hope to see Mr Sackford and
so to proceed to good meanes if your Ladiship shall so thinke it good :
PASTONK,39.001.10

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I would haue bin messenger my selfe but that building busines doth so
sett aworke my head that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} absent my selfe :
PASTONK,39.001.11

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therfore I humbly crave Sir Thomas and your Ladiships fauourable
censure for the neglectinge of my duty PASTONK,39.001.12

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and by the help of god at my returne out of suffolk I will supply this
want : Vntill which time and euer after I comitte your Ladiship to the
protection of the most hiest not omitting my humble and bounden duty
vnto Sir Thomas and your Ladiship whom god longe with health and
hapines continue : PASTONK,39.001.13

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wortwell PASTONK,39.001.14

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this i6th of february . PASTONK,39.001.15

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:29
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_001:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your euer most dutifull sonne Thomas Holland PASTONK,39.001.16

<Q_PAK_A_1611_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_002> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570> <R_EDMUND_PASTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1585>

<P_40>

{ED:2_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_SIR_EDMUND_PASTON}

{ED:25_July_1611}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull Sir Edmunde Paston knight give these at
Paston PASTONK,40.002.17

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir . I receiued your lettre PASTONK,40.002.18

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and whereas you wryte by the same that lately pervsinge the will of my
vncle Clemente Paston you doe fynde that ther is a legacie given vnto
you of twentie poundes which hath ben due vnto you <paren> as I gather
by the saide will which I have also lately pervsed this ten or twelve
yeares </paren> duringe all which tyme Sir William Paston beinge one of
the executors to my vncle , and haueinge his will as well as I , he
might have payde you the same . and had more iust $cawse then I so to
doe . for that he did Continewally from tyme to tyme Receiue all the
debtes and proffittes which might be Raysed of suche of my vncles
debtes and goodes as we that were executors were to Receiue . And yf
that then Sir William Paston did not pay you nor you woulde not in his
tyme demaund the same of him , nor of me , nor of mrs Alice Paston who
was also an executor . And nowe you demaunde it of me , beinge the
Survivor executor . To your demaunde I make this answere <paren> that
god willinge </paren> I will be at Thorpe vpon Tuesday nexte .
PASTONK,40.002.19

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and yf your sende me an Acquittance , I will pay six poundes thirteene
shillinges and fouer pence , which is the thirde parte of the saide xx
li . PASTONK,40.002.20

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the other two partes <paren> yf you will have me pay </paren> you must
recover the same of me by order of lawe . PASTONK,40.002.21

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And the cause why I deney to pay the other two partes , amountinge to
twentie markes , is for that I have an Indenture of Covenantes and A
bonde of Sir William Paston and the like of mrs Alice Paston that they
shall beare eiche of them the thirde parte of all $such legacies and
debtes as shall be due from my vncle . So <em> that if </em> you
Recover the saide xx li. from me by lawe , I shall have $legal Remedie
to recover two partes againe of theire heires or $executors <em> .
</em> PASTONK,40.002.22

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am farther to imparte vnto you that whereas I am advised $by Counsell
that I am wronged in A greate parte of A marshe of $Acle called
Posweeke alias Stargote marshe which Sir William Paston <em> <paren> as
I </em> am informed </paren> did lett A parte thereof <paren> as yf it
were his $inheritance <em> </paren> </em> which I Clayme to be myne .
And although I did beare with this wronge in Sir William Pastons tyme
for some Consideracions : yet nowe I am Resolved to try the tythe of
the saide marshe . PASTONK,40.002.23

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And concerning the same I have talked lately with mr Iohn Iermey who
tolde me that Sir William Paston had given and devised vnto you the
marshes of his lyinge in Runham nexte this marshe of myne . by Colour
of which gifte I suppose that you will be advised to make A tythe to
that parte of Posweeke marshe which I pretende to be myne . and <paren>
as I am advised </paren> was wrongfully by Sir William Paston detayned
from me . PASTONK,40.002.24

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And as I doe vnderstande that the same mr Iermy doth at this presente
vse and ocupie that parte of Posweeke alias Stargote marshe which him
selfe doth acknowledge to be myne , as also the other parte which I
Clayme to be parcell of the saide marshe . And haveinge talked with him
he saide vnto me <paren> as I Remember </paren> that he wouldle try mo
tythes , but that it did <P_41> Concerne your selfe . Wherefore I have
thoughte good to signify vnto you that I can be Contente to Avoyde
<paren> yf it may be </paren> suites betweene kinsmen . That your selfe
shall choose one gentleman and A lawyer and I will choose an other
gentleman and A lawyer and they to heare what can be saide and proved
for the tythe on both sydes . And so to make A frendly ende betweene vs
, or els to leave it to the lawe to iudge the Righte PASTONK,41.002.25

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but this must be that we must agree to allowe the testimoney of honest
Credibble men although they deliuer their testimoney vnsworne
Concerninge the knowledge and vse of the saide groundes
PASTONK,41.002.26

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for other wyse I see not howe the cause can be desyded without A
Commission to take their othes which $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be done ,
but by suite , either in the Chancerie or at the Comon lawe .
PASTONK,41.002.27

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe Request you to signifie vnto me what you will doe Concerninge the
premisses PASTONK,41.002.28

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for nowe the marshes are Reasonablie dry PASTONK,41.002.29

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and may be easilie vewed , PASTONK,41.002.30

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and perchance will not longe be so . PASTONK,41.002.31

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I am Resolved before the nexte tearme either to ende the cause by
frendly arbitterment or els to Recover my Right by lawe
PASTONK,41.002.32

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so muche I haue saide vnto mr Iohn Iermey and Requested him to
signifie vnto you PASTONK,41.002.33

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And so in hast I Comitt you to the tuission of the Almightie
PASTONK,41.002.34

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Appleton PASTONK,41.002.35

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this xxvth of Iuly 1611 PASTONK,41.002.36

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your verie loueinge kinsman Edward Paston PASTONK,41.002.37

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:41
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_PASTON:MALE:KIN:1585:26
LETTER:PASTONK_002:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray you Comende me hartely to my ladie your Wyfe PASTONK,41.002.38

<Q_PAK_A_1614_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_003> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574> <R_MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_41>

{ED:3_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_MURIEL_BELL}

{ED:17_May_1614}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My beloued good Sister The pracious time of my sister Pastons beinge
heere caused my forbearance vntill my last howre PASTONK,41.003.39

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am sory to heere of the paine falne into your hand though I will hope
it to bee better then the report of Barnard who said it was like the
greife which Frank Bulwer suffred which god deliuer you from :
PASTONK,41.003.40

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall rather wish that such good health and high spiritt may succeed
your travell that no discouradgment may arise by our societie
PASTONK,41.003.41

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My time is limited PASTONK,41.003.42

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but my loue is perpetuall PASTONK,41.003.43

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
excuse the one by the acceptance of the other PASTONK,41.003.44

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
so shall ceremonie obey substance and my best endeuours dedicated to
your seruice with which I ioyne the remembrance of my best seruice to
Sir Thomas and my Lady and therto my indissoluble affection to your
worthy selfe PASTONK,41.003.45

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So I rest PASTONK,41.003.46

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Quidenham PASTONK,41.003.47

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
17 Maij i6i4 PASTONK,41.003.48

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:40
RECIPIENT:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:PASTONK_003:E2:1614:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your true louing brother and faithfull frend Tho. Holland
PASTONK,41.003.49

<Q_PAK_A_1615?_FO_MHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_004> <A_MARY_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_--->
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_42>

{ED:4_LADY_MARY_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:1615_?}

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my much asteamed freend the Lady Paston giue
thes PASTONK,42.004.50

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Madame my hart is full to speake with yow . PASTONK,42.004.51

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And were I as fitting to take a iorneie as {that_I_were} I could wish ,
my self would haue cume vnto yow . PASTONK,42.004.52

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But beeing altogether vnfit at this tyme , I earnestly request your
Ladyships paynes to cume to dynner to morrow to Kettringame .
PASTONK,42.004.53

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue ever found your worthy mother , a second mother in hart and
affection to all myne . PASTONK,42.004.54

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And God knoweth , to whom nothing is vnknown I am the like to all hirs
. PASTONK,42.004.55

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Madame lett me be beholding vnto yow for the vndertaking of this
paynes . PASTONK,42.004.56

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I hope it shall not repent yow therof . PASTONK,42.004.57

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus with my hartie best wishes and longing to see yow I rest .
PASTONK,42.004.58

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ever Yours PASTONK,42.004.59

AUTHOR:MARY_HEVENINGHAM:FEMALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:37?
LETTER:PASTONK_004:E2:1615?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Mary Hevenyngham PASTONK,42.004.60

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_005> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_42>

{ED:5_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:30_March_1618}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my assured louinge Sister the Lady Paston geue
these PASTONK,42.005.61

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / lett me entreat you to doe me so much kindnes , as that
theare may be some search made in the closett at Paston , whether ther
be any wrightings concerninge differences betweene Sir William Paston ,
& Sir Henry Woodhouse , about the tythes of Backton , or any other
busines betweene them , & whether ther be not some award vpon a
reference to some gentlemen in the cowntry to end all controuersies
betweene them , PASTONK,42.005.62

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
if any such things can be fownd if you $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} pleased
thay may be brought to Norwich in Easter weeke , I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} very thankfull to you for the same . PASTONK,42.005.63

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
ffor ther is a very straunge peticion exhibited by Sir Henry Woodhouse
to my Lord Chauncelour against me of a debt almost of a li that Sir
William Paston should owe to him vpon an Accownt cast up by Mr Loueday
, wher in he might haue recouered his right of Sir William if ther had
beene any such matter , he liuinge at the least seauen yeares after
this difference began betweene them , PASTONK,42.005.64

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& to charge me as executor vpon an Accownt , wher ther is no bonds nor
specialtyes to <P_43> shewe , I thinke ther is nyther law nor
conscience . PASTONK,43.005.65

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So with my wifes & my kinde salutations remembered to your selfe & my
good Brother , desiringe God longe to continewe the health of you both
, & of your sweete children , I rest PASTONK,43.005.66

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ketheringham PASTONK,43.005.67

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this of March 1618 PASTONK,43.005.68

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_005:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assured louinge Brother John Hevenyngham . PASTONK,43.005.69

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_006> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_43>

{ED:6_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:23_August_1618}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull and his very louinge Cozen the Ladie
Katherine Paston at Paston hall giue these PASTONK,43.006.70

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Madame , Whereas this bearer mr David Tylls showed me this day , A
Lease in Reuertion made by Sir William Paston , of Certayne Landes and
Tenementes lyinge in Buxton , which were purchased by my vncle Clemente
Paston of one mr Clifton . - To the which lease <paren> as it doth
appeare by the same </paren> my Cozen Sir Edmonde Paston shoulde haue
sealed . PASTONK,43.006.71

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nowe for as much <paren> that as I doe take it </paren> the said houses
and Lande by my vncle Clemente <paren> as it doth appeare by his will
</paren> are intayled vnto me in Reuertion after Sir Edmonde Paston . I
doe request the said Sir Edmonde to stay the makinge of any lease of
the said Landes and Tenementes vntill I doe talke the said Sir Edmonde
PASTONK,43.006.72

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And so Comendinge me to Sir Edmonde Paston and your selfe I leave you .
PASTONK,43.006.73

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Townbaringham PASTONK,43.006.74

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this xxiii=th= of August 1618 PASTONK,43.006.75

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:48
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_006:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your verie Louinge Cozen Edward Paston PASTONK,43.006.76

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_007> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_43>

{ED:7_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:3_October_1618}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my very louinge Sister the Lady Paston geue
these PASTONK,43.007.77

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / I came hither this morninge thinkinge to speak with Mr
Jermy , that you might haue beene resolued from vs both , of that which
you desire , PASTONK,43.007.78

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but he was gone from home this morninge very early PASTONK,43.007.79

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& retourneth not till to morowe at night , PASTONK,43.007.80

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I purpose <paren> god willinge </paren> to be heere agayne vpon
Wedensday morninge , PASTONK,43.007.81

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& vpon Thursday you shall Receiue a letter from me by Mr. Browne , what
Mr Jermy doth determyne <P_44> therin . PASTONK,44.007.82

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
ffor ther shall no paynes nor care be wantinge in me to bringe all
thinges to a quiett peace betweene vs , & to giue you satisfaction , in
any reasounable demaund you can desire . PASTONK,44.007.83

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So with my most kinde affection remembred to you , & my good brother ,
& the rest of the good company now present with you , wishinge you &
all yours much health & happines , I rest PASTONK,44.007.84

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Norwich PASTONK,44.007.85

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 3=o= of October . 1618 PASTONK,44.007.86

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_007:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your most assured louinge brother Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,44.007.87

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_008>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1577>

<P_44>

{ED:8_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM}

{ED:4_October_1618}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The copy of a letter to Sir Iohn Heueningham : PASTONK,44.008.88

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the 4 of october 1618 PASTONK,44.008.89

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good brother , consideringe you haue shewed so great a desire to haue
all matters accorded in loue : concerninge such demands as by the bill
in chancery dothe appere : and to that ende haue requested a
forbearance from any further proscedinge vntill Easter Terme :
promisinge . that full satisffacktion shall be afforded me . for
purchisinge of land with the stock in your hands : but of the
answerable respeckt had vnto your self : I am content to Respite . any
pursute therof this tearm . if your self with mr Iarmy will vnder your
hands : sett downe what those perticulars are . you doe intende to giue
satisffacktion in : and that you will parforme the sam with in the time
promised : as allso to do no acte to preiudice in the mean time : which
may be ocasioned by my not prosedinge : PASTONK,44.008.90

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
then for the resons formarly named howsoever mr Iarmy hathe layed many
aspersions very vntrue : vpon my dead father and my self . not
doubtinge but . suffitientely to cleer bothe of vs . if occation be
offered : yett for the Loue of peas . I will be content to bury the
remembranc of them :/ PASTONK,44.008.91

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but if mr Iarmy shall reffuse to sett downe his true intent and
meaninge vnder his hande . I shall thinke he only seekethe to gayne
time : and by cunninge to intrape me : he intendinge nothinge less .
then to giue satisffacktion : seekinge still to wronge me and my Iust
Cawse :/ to prevent which . I can do no less then withe all dilligenc
and expedition seeke to obtayne the effeckt of that : which bothe your
self and all others . which hathe heard of this matter . dothe Iudge to
be bothe reasonable and consionable :/ PASTONK,44.008.92

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yett shall it be still withe all respeckt to your self . as much as by
all means I can procuer ./ PASTONK,44.008.93

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but good sir Consider that it wer most fitt that this shold be
estably-shed by a decree . for the more sertinty and to secure it to
those to home in all right it dothe belonge :/ PASTONK,44.008.94

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
thus good sir desiringe you to conffer with mr Iarmy : and to send your
answer with all speed in wrightinge : PASTONK,44.008.95

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for the time pasethe fast away . PASTONK,44.008.96

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I must resolue of sum sertine coorse : PASTONK,44.008.97

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
LETTER:PASTONK_008:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so commendinge me PASTONK,44.008.98

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_009> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_45>

{ED:9_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:7_October_1618}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my very louinge sister the Lady Paston geue
these ./ PASTONK,45.009.99

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / Mr Iermy sayth that he will performe that which
heertofore he hath promised for the buyinge of land for the children
with such money as is remayninge in his hands , PASTONK,45.009.100

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& he sayth he hath entered bonds for the securyty of that money ,
PASTONK,45.009.101

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but for settinge his hand to any thinge which you desire , which now at
this present I propownded to him , he will not by any means be drawen
to . PASTONK,45.009.102

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My opinion therfore is , <paren> if it please you to approue therof
</paren> that seinge ther be so many witnesses of that before specified
which he hath spoken , & that ther are bonds of his Remayninge in my
hands , for the securinge of such moneys as was in his hands at our
last accompt , and that we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} preiudice your
proceedings in the Chauncerie , with your delayinge this suite ,
accordinge to my motion to you heere at our meetinge at Norwich the
last weeke , which he was not acquainted with , I thinke theare $will
$be {TEXT:wilbe} no daunger to you to stay till Easter tearme within
which tyme perhaps he may be perswaded to this which you desire ,
PASTONK,45.009.103

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& for myne owne part betweene this & that tyme , I hope I shall giue
securyty by land for such money as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} Remayninge
in my hand . PASTONK,45.009.104

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So remembringe my kind affection to you , wishing all health & happines
to you & yours , I rest Your assured louinge brother Iohn Hevenyngham
PASTONK,45.009.105

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Norwich PASTONK,45.009.106

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 7th of October 1618 PASTONK,45.009.107

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Vpon saterday I should Ryde into Suffolk & stay theare all the next
weeke at most . PASTONK,45.009.108

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:41
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_009:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therfore I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} wright to you agayne ./
PASTONK,45.009.109

<Q_PAK_A_1618?_FN_MBELL> <L_PASTONK_010> <A_MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_--->
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_45>

{ED:10_LADY_MURIEL_BELL_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:1618?}

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most beloved kinde Sister the Lady Passton these be deliuerd
PASTONK,45.010.110

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray Paston My deer Sister our weekly task must yett be contenewed ;
PASTONK,45.010.111

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I can not gett leue of my good Nephew to depart vntill his Returne
from London PASTONK,45.010.112

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but then he haue promissed me to bringe me vnto you :
PASTONK,45.010.113

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
take noe care <paren> I $pray $thee {TEXT:prethy} </paren> for bringing
my stuff : and truncks : PASTONK,45.010.114

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I will not troble any of your company haueing <P_46> a purpose to
hyer a cart hear to bringe them directtly to Paston ;
PASTONK,46.010.115

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
glad whould I be to be with thee ; if I could handsomly deny my Nephew
PASTONK,46.010.116

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I know his Stufkey kindred , <paren> I can not call them his
frindes </paren> will censsuer me much and imputt his keeping house to
me . PASTONK,46.010.117

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I hear they are much disscontented : that he should keep so much as
searuants hear . PASTONK,46.010.118

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if they knew my minde and dissier to be eles whear they , whould free
me from blame . PASTONK,46.010.119

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am ressoulued not to take any greatt hurt ; for ther vnkindneses
: PASTONK,46.010.120

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther best affections are little worth the vallewing being so
vnconstant ; as they remoue them vpon meer conceaytts from them that
haue best dessarved of them :-: PASTONK,46.010.121

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No sweett Sister : I wish I wear with you some few howers to disscourse
with thee , vpon a disscourse which on had with me this other day
abought your greatt buss'nes in hand PASTONK,46.010.122

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I could rellatt itt better by word then by writting ,
PASTONK,46.010.123

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and some sattissfacttione should I receive from thee of those things
that , being putt to me ; <paren> by reassone of my ignoranc in this
buss'nes </paren> I could not answear : PASTONK,46.010.124

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this itt was I being att Kettringhame vpon wedinssday last : did ther
meett with mr wittle : PASTONK,46.010.125

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my ould Lady and I being together and speaking of you ; he came
vnto me PASTONK,46.010.126

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sayde ; O madame that I wear any way interested in that Lady ;
PASTONK,46.010.127

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she is in a buss'nes ; that I fear will work her much disscontent
in the end , PASTONK,46.010.128

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I asked his reassone ; the cause being so good ; your demaundes so iust
your course so temperatt why itt should be thought ; to be so dangerous
for me PASTONK,46.010.129

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sayd itt was true all this I sayd ; PASTONK,46.010.130

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wished me withall to consider the times whatt they are and the
manner of proceeding of thatt courtt what itt is . PASTONK,46.010.131

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you complayne ; that in the conuayance ther is noe prouissione ; for
the secuering of the stock and that ther are greatt sumes of mony in
the feoffees hands vnsecuered : PASTONK,46.010.132

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and other things he aleadged which truely , I can not remember but for
these tow I remember he sayd : PASTONK,46.010.133

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Whatt if if by amending or oredering to amend this in the conuayance
ther may be startling holles found to ouerthrowgh the conuayance ;
PASTONK,46.010.134

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as the cass standes with your Father in lawe matters , be agayne
called into questyone which now may perpettually rest ;
PASTONK,46.010.135

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
besides , the courss of that Court is to drawe the sumes of mony in
contreuerssy into the Court . ther to Lye vntill matters be desided
which many times is so long as the mony is hardly drawen ; out agayne
if euer ; PASTONK,46.010.136

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for this I can sumwhatt speak , PASTONK,46.010.137

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my Cossen Harysone was so ordered for li ; PASTONK,46.010.138

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but neuer a peny could he gett agayne : although ; itt was noe more dew
for him to pay : then for me : PASTONK,46.010.139

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so was my father searued for the li in Garretts buss'nes ;
PASTONK,46.010.140

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
much talk we had many Wayes ; PASTONK,46.010.141

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
att last I asked him if itt wear fitt itt should still goe one as itt
now was ; PASTONK,46.010.142

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sayd noe by noe means ; but thatt the monys in the feoffees hands
should be imployed in purchassing of Land ; PASTONK,46.010.143

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sayd if that whould haue ben granted vnto , you whould never haue
stured out of doores abought itt ; PASTONK,46.010.144

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for itt is all you haue dessiered ; PASTONK,46.010.145

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sayd he whould vndertake to of them should doe this that is Sir
Ihon: Heveningham and mr Ierme : PASTONK,46.010.146

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sayd I thought you did Belleeue Sir Ihon whould PASTONK,46.010.147

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for the other you could neuer finde him forward ; in itt ; nor
willing to geue you any content ; when you haue trauelled to him to
resoule your self in this or any other Bussnes ; PASTONK,46.010.148

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sayd being this week att Norwich he had some speach with Mr Iermy
abought itt . Who prottested he Whould pressentlie paye in the
thoussand pound ; PASTONK,46.010.149

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then ther should be in his hands sume li more which he whould pay
into mistris Paston by quarter the yeer and neuer receive pany agayne ;
PASTONK,46.010.150

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so ther should be noe more fear of him ; PASTONK,46.010.151

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did Belleeue ; this might be in his <P_47> heatt vttered ;
PASTONK,47.010.152

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I sayd I thought they that had intered into the trust of the
ffeoffees hir could not when they whould shake itt of ;
PASTONK,47.010.153

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neyther is itt your dissier ; to haue itt ; but only an honest care
that the monys that was raysed out of the lands of Sir William Paston
might be secuerd for the good and prefferment of his posteryty ;
PASTONK,47.010.154

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the conclussion was ; he whould wish me to aduice you to staye the sutt
a whill ; PASTONK,47.010.155

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they did not performe whatt they now promissed ; then you might
proceed att your pleassuer ; PASTONK,47.010.156

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
truelly I tould him my prayre could not shott leuell to thess kinde of
bus'neses PASTONK,47.010.157

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neyther could I tell $what to writt ; PASTONK,47.010.158

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yett gladly whould I wish a nend of itt ; and doe the best to effectt
itt PASTONK,47.010.159

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I did assuer him if that whould be done for purchassing of Land
that he promissed : you whould soone sursses your sutt
PASTONK,47.010.160

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I veryly Belleau you whould PASTONK,47.010.161

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
after we Brake vp our disscourss I went vnto Sir Ihon
PASTONK,47.010.162

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and had some speach with him ; of whatt had ben spoken ;
PASTONK,47.010.163

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he ; tould me he had that day written vnto you ; PASTONK,47.010.164

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but to whatt purposs ; I did not enquire PASTONK,47.010.165

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if itt wear to staye the sutt with a promiss to laye out the monys vpon
Land : I thinke itt wear the Best to accept itt ; PASTONK,47.010.166

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
had not that ould disscourssing ientill ben ther noe talk should haue
ben abought this ; PASTONK,47.010.167

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I finde them sparing PASTONK,47.010.168

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I loue not to medle , with that which concerns me not :
PASTONK,47.010.169

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
well my prayers to the Almighty is that he will directt the in the best
courss and deliuer thee out of thy enymys hands , both bodyly and
ghostly PASTONK,47.010.170

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thus with my kindest affecttions to thy $deerect selff ; and my
good Brother I leue thee and thine to the mercy of the $Almighty
Resting thine euer PASTONK,47.010.171

AUTHOR:MURIEL_KNYVETT/BELL:FEMALE:SISTER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:SISTER:1578:40?
LETTER:PASTONK_010:E2:1618?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Meriell Bell PASTONK,47.010.172

<Q_PAK_A_1618_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_011> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_47>

{ED:11_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:28_October_1618}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To his honored Sister the Lady Paston at hir lodgin at Saint Gyells in
the field giue theise PASTONK,47.011.173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My worthy Sister I receaued your letter within 4 dayes after the date
of that letter which did impart to vs your safe cominge with your sweet
boyes to London the vnderstandinge of which was most welcome to vs all
PASTONK,47.011.174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
god blesse you with them PASTONK,47.011.175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
make you long happy in them PASTONK,47.011.176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and giue good successe to your worthy care and intention :
PASTONK,47.011.177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I hastened after you the letters which I procured from my cosen Dix to
the Gentleman I tould you of with a letter of directions from him for
your proceeding therin : PASTONK,47.011.178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But for the better issue of the buisines he hath promised to deliuer
this letter him selfe and to put you into such a way that you shall not
err PASTONK,47.011.179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for he will repaire to that gentleman with an other very powerfull with
him and with your solicitour / PASTONK,47.011.180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
so season him that he nothing doubteth of an honorable victorie to you
therin PASTONK,47.011.181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therfore cause your solicitor to bee perfectly instructed to goe
through therwith . PASTONK,47.011.182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I heere your London Iourney is layed on mee to be the cause
PASTONK,47.011.183

<P_48>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I am very willinge to take it vpon mee PASTONK,48.011.184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I will rather desire to faile of their good opinions then not
expresse my sincerest affection to your selfe PASTONK,48.011.185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but hope of your praeuailinge in so
conscionable a cause : PASTONK,48.011.186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
All our familie I praise god is in good health PASTONK,48.011.187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but my selfe haue had the runninge ouer nyne hedges all this weeke but
now voluntarilie stayed PASTONK,48.011.188

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Newes of the Country I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} possesse you with any
but of the Death of yonge Pettus who hath left a Rich widow no lesse
worth than li his sole executor PASTONK,48.011.189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he hath giuen two shillings a weeke for euer to the Poore of the towne
and fiue pounds a yeere to maintaine an excercise with many other
workes of charitie PASTONK,48.011.190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I will no longer detaine you from your more serious employment
PASTONK,48.011.191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but with the remembrance of my kindest respect to your Honorable selfe
with the like from my wife and to my brother with all good wishes to
pretty Will and my beloued god sonn I comitt you to god
PASTONK,48.011.192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and euer will rest PASTONK,48.011.193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Quidenham PASTONK,48.011.194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
28=o= 8=bris= i6i8 PASTONK,48.011.195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your true faithfull brother Tho: Holland PASTONK,48.011.196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:40
LETTER:PASTONK_011:E2:1618:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue this night receaued your letter wherby I find your receipt of
the letters sent As also the Cunninge vsed to make you surcease but ...
PASTONK,48.011.197

<Q_PAK_A_1619_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_012> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_48>

{ED:12_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:10_February_1619}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my very louinge Sister the Lady Paston geue
these ./ PASTONK,48.012.198

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / I haue sent you at last the coppys of the Accounts of
both feeffments ingrossed in bookes by this bearer , PASTONK,48.012.199

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
if he could haue doone them sooner , you should haue Receiued them
before this tyme , PASTONK,48.012.200

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I will also send you very shortly all the Rentalls & ffermals of all
Sir William Pastons estate , that you may compare them with our
Accompts PASTONK,48.012.201

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& if it please you euery yeare soone after our accompts are perfected ,
eyther my man Machett shall enter them into your booke ,
PASTONK,48.012.202

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or you shall haue my booke for any that you will putt in trust to
engrosse them into yours ./ PASTONK,48.012.203

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue lately Receiued the Auditt Accompts which Mr Horneby tooke for
three yeares since Sir William Paston died , which you shall see before
our next Accompts , after that I haue examined them with ours .
PASTONK,48.012.204

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus with my wifes & my true affection recommended to your selfe , & my
good brother , wishinge you & all yours , all health & happines , I
rest Your assured louinge Brother . PASTONK,48.012.205

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,48.012.206

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,48.012.207

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_012:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this of ffebruary . 1618. / PASTONK,48.012.208

<Q_PAK_A_1619_FO_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_013>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1577>

<P_49>

{ED:13_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM}

{ED:1619?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Brother . I haue receyved by your man mr matchett your kinde
letter . together with your Coppis of the Accownts : PASTONK,49.013.209

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I know not in what tearms to expres my thankefullnes for the kindnes
you shew to me and mine . PASTONK,49.013.210

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I know of your owne self . you ar free enough from wronginge any on :/
PASTONK,49.013.211

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I did : and ever will acknowledge it :/:/:/ PASTONK,49.013.212

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and if I did ever desire to see these Accownts , it was not to question
any thinge that was in them : for you shall well finde that was not my
intent : but only to haue eased my self of findinge out sir William
pastons estate , which of nessesity I was to make knowne at the
comission :/ which with much adoo we fownde out the most parte :/
PASTONK,49.013.213

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but mr Iarmis frowardnes hathe Cawsed much truble to vs all : wheras if
he wold haue consented to the Iust desier of vs , all . he shold haue
shewed himself a fare more worthy plan : and haue deserved the nam of a
frinde to the howse of sir William paston : and haue easeed me of many
a carffull thought - PASTONK,49.013.214

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and it is well parsayved how he seeks to gayne time PASTONK,49.013.215

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
ells he wold not haue called for an other comission considringe he
might haue finished all at this last comission :/ PASTONK,49.013.216

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:42
LETTER:PASTONK_013:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or whether he giue it out that he will haue on : intendinge nothinge
less therby to go beyonde vs if we sitt secure :/ he haue shewed so
many rare devises sinc this bisnes begane that I can proue he hath an
extrordinary invention : PASTONK,49.013.217

<Q_PAK_A_1619_T_SMACHETT> <L_PASTONK_014> <A_SAMUEL_MATCHETT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1581>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_49>

{ED:14_SAMUEL_MATCHETT_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:16_April_1619}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my honorable good Lady the Lady Paston of Paston these be delivered
at London PASTONK,49.014.218

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My euer honored Lady I doe acknowledge my self to be more then bould in
daringe to write vnto your worthy self PASTONK,49.014.219

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yet I hope that the confession of my fault <paren> with the occasion
thereof </paren> by your favourable construction maye obtaine pardon at
your handes . PASTONK,49.014.220

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ffor Sir Iohn havinge written his lettres vnto Mr Binge very
effectually concerninge your Ladyships desire <paren> which was as a
comaund vnto me </paren> I went to Norwich with a resolucion to have
left the same lettres at Mr Brownes to have been conveyed by your owne
direccions vnto Mr Binge PASTONK,49.014.221

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I goinge vnto Mr Iermy to acqauint him with Sir Iohn his purpose
and intencion that Mr Iermy <paren> if he did stand so affected
</paren> might pleade only for himself in opposicion of the decree in
that pointe for the purchasinge of landes & it enkindled an exceedinge
rage & heate in Mr Iermy who said that he carid not for your suite he
had dealt soe iustly & honestly in the trust reposed in him but Sir
Iohn his dealinge vnderhand by ill instrumentes & his vnkindnes now in
disioyninge himself at the daye of hearinge of purpose to extenuate his
worth & reputacion & to oppose him doth not a litle vexe his spirittes
. PASTONK,49.014.222

<P_50>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But he sayde Sir Iohn was likely to receive a blowe for it was Mr
Paston his ayme & end that the decree should enioyne the ffeoffees to
purchase landes which should be entaylid vpon his sonnes & some other
speeches of like nature which occasioned me to staye the deliuery of
the saide lettres to Mr Browne with a self perswation to have procured
Sir Iohn to have beene at the daye of hearinge in person which I
conceited was much desired by your self PASTONK,50.014.223

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but my expectacion proved wyndy PASTONK,50.014.224

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I found Sir Iohn cold in intertaininge such a motion as beinge
secured in that pointe by your self & Mr Paston PASTONK,50.014.225

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Therefore I have sent the saide lettres vnto Mr Binge by Mr Mr
Pickerell his sonne of Intwood PASTONK,50.014.226

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have given Mr Allen direccion from Sir Iohn to write to his
Solicitor to retaine Mr Binge on Sir Iohn his parte PASTONK,50.014.227

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If your Ladyship thinke it fittinge yow maye send vnto Mr Binge therby
to vnderstand whether he hath receivid the saide lettres from Sir Iohn
or not least yow meete with a lawyers trick PASTONK,50.014.228

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If Mr Binge should not be present at the hearinge Mr Iermy maye be
demaunded whether I or some other did not acquaint him from Sir Iohn
that he was willinge & desirous that the decree might enioyne the
ffeoffees to secure the monyes in their handes by purchasing landes &
that Sir Iohn had bought as much land as cost him neare mmdccc li which
he intended to secure for parte of the monyes in his handes
PASTONK,50.014.229

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also would very shortly purchase more landes for the securinge of
the residue of the ffeoffent moneys which is in his handes
PASTONK,50.014.230

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Good Madame I beseach yow passe by my bouldnes herein
PASTONK,50.014.231

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& lett these my illitterate & tedious lynes be only knowne to your
Ladyship PASTONK,50.014.232

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Sir Iohn hath noe notion of them . PASTONK,50.014.233

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If your Ladyship hath a desire to make me happy make vse of the power
yow have ouer me in comaunding any office or servyce wherein I have
abilitie to make performance PASTONK,50.014.234

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus with my dutifull rememberance to your Ladyship still prayienge
that your felicities may never cease I remaine as euer becometh me
PASTONK,50.014.235

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Norwich PASTONK,50.014.236

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
xvi=o= Aprilis 1619 . PASTONK,50.014.237

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Ladyships in all dutie & servyce to commaund PASTONK,50.014.238

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_MATCHETT:MALE:_:1581:38
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:41
LETTER:PASTONK_014:E2:1619:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
S. Machett PASTONK,50.014.239

<Q_PAK_A_1620_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_015> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_51>

{ED:16_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:18_January_1620}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my very louinge sister the Lady Paston geue
these PASTONK,51.015.240

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / although I needed not to haue written to you at this
present about this busines because that which I would effect therin ,
is first for the good of yours , my selfe neuer intendinge opposition
to you therin , yett because my Lord Chauncelour ordered the last
tearme , that I should send my brother Paston , the reasons why I
desire to haue the land newly purchased to be estated for want of issue
of my brother Paston , vpon my wife & her children . I haue therfore
sent you a coppy of the said reasons here inclosed , PASTONK,51.015.241

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& haue appointed my Sollicitor to procure the eight day of ffebruary
next if he can , for my Lord Chauncellour to heare thes reasons
alledged by my cownsell PASTONK,51.015.242

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I wish the happy continuaunce of my brothers posteryty as longe as the
worlde endureth , PASTONK,51.015.243

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& my heart is free from the desire or hope that euer my children shall
come to that land , PASTONK,51.015.244

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yett seinge it is ther right both-1 by the lawe of God and man , the
world would much condemne me , if I should be negligent in doinge my
best endeauouers to haue it setled vpon them . PASTONK,51.015.245

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus with my wifes & my kind affection remembred to your selfe & my
good brother , wishinge all happines to you both , & to your sweet
children , I rest Your assured louinge brother Iohn Hevenyngham
PASTONK,51.015.246

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,51.015.247

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_015:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 18=th= of Ianuary . i619 . PASTONK,51.015.248

<Q_PAK_A_1620_FO_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_016>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1577>

<P_52>

{ED:17_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM}

{ED:20_January_1620}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The coppy of my letter to sir Iohn Heveningham the of Ianuary 1619
PASTONK,52.016.249

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good brother . I know well . you needed not to haue written to me at
all : concerninge this bisnes ./ PASTONK,52.016.250

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yett I finde the last order . that you wear to acquaynt the playntiff
with your desire in wrightinge . which accordingly you haue done .
though very late : our Cownsell beinge goon to London :
PASTONK,52.016.251

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but theer $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} order taken for so much as dothe
concern our selues :/ PASTONK,52.016.252

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
now for that I haue bine much taxed for seekinge to preffer my Cosine
Paston and his sonns in the lands to be purchised before you and your
posteryty : it is suffitient for me . to know my selfe wronged by all
that beleue it is trew :/ PASTONK,52.016.253

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and also I know it to be most trew that my Cosine paston hathe not : at
any time . by any ways or mens . by word nor wrightinge made known to
me that ever he aymed or desired any estats in such lands as wear to be
purchised : PASTONK,52.016.254

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but if any such concept he had he kept it secrite in his own bosome .
from my knowledge euen to this day :/ PASTONK,52.016.255

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and it will appeer to be most trew that my Lord Chanclor vpon heeringe
of the Cawse debated on all parts : affter he had ordered that lands
wear to be purchised with the moneis : he then in open Coort in the
heeringe of mr Iarmy : sayd that he wold settell the estats of the
lands to be purchised in the neerist maner {in}_P he coold accordinge
to the convayances : as affter vpon the finishing of the decre he did
PASTONK,52.016.256

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for haueinge sene the convayancis and se how the lands wear intaled to
the tenthe sone . with diuers remaynders to others . he with the master
of the Rowls . at that time did thinke it most meet to settell the
estats of the new purchised lands as the others wear : therby to go so
neer to sir williame pastons his purpos as he coold . and as it wear .
to strengthen rayther then to weaken the same :/ PASTONK,52.016.257

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I am parswaded my Lord was fare from beinge wrought by my Cosine
paston thus to dispos of them allthough in on of your resons shewed :
<paren> with out Cavs : </paren> he is charged to seeke it :/
PASTONK,52.016.258

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
you may thinke we neglekted you and yours : PASTONK,52.016.259

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but sure we more forget an eleuenth sone if any such shall be borne .
PASTONK,52.016.260

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for by that means such a on shall be borne to nyther peny nor peny
worthe . PASTONK,52.016.261

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I hop ther shall never com of sir will such a poor sowll into the
world . PASTONK,52.016.262

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but howsoever if I had thought of it in time . and cowld I haue
obtayned I shold not haue fayled to haue spoke in the behalf of those
vnborn which I hope shall never be :/ PASTONK,52.016.263

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
all the world wold haue thought Mr Iarmy to haue bine a most singular
frinde to you . if some 7. yeers sinc he woold haue shewed you of the
dangerous inconvenienc which in time to com you wear like to receiue .
by the lose of these monys . which him self and other had receved :/ if
your selfe shall not providently prevent the same :/ by some coorse
which himself no doupt coold haue direckted you in : PASTONK,52.016.264

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but by those days he towld you an other talle :/ PASTONK,52.016.265

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and surly your selfe was so fare from apprehendinge this your great
lose which now you ar so sencible ofe : as you sought to be a stranger
in the trust rayther then to haue any medlinge in the receyts . and oft
towld me . bothe before and scinc the sute began . that you wold giue
over <P_53> and receiue no more : PASTONK,53.016.266

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
it seemd so great a burden then to you as your best frinds did ther
best to haue you giue all over to the rest and medle no more .
PASTONK,53.016.267

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
no word was then spoken concerninge setlinge of estats to you and yours
. PASTONK,53.016.268

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for you sought not to preserve so much as the stocke to your own vse :
PASTONK,53.016.269

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but good brother I wish you had giuen direcktions to your Cownsell . or
that your self rayther had bine pleased to haue bine at the heeringe of
the Cawse as I oft desired you wold : PASTONK,53.016.270

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
then had bine a fittinge time to haue made your desire known to my Lord
: PASTONK,53.016.271

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and surly all things wold haue bine more frindly prosecuted then now
thay ar like as I well parsayve : PASTONK,53.016.272

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but that it was not thus . it was not my falte . PASTONK,53.016.273

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for coold my intreatis haue prevayled : your self shold haue bine made
partaker of the secrit of all my intentions in this bisnes :
PASTONK,53.016.274

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I se mr Iarmy dothe still procur you to play his game with my
Cosine paston : himself that whilst reioysinge more in your disention :
then he will glory if you shall obtayn the victory : PASTONK,53.016.275

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and if ever I haue offered you wronge . it is now in trubling you so
much with my criblinge . PASTONK,53.016.276

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but for that my hart is very full . PASTONK,53.016.277

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for beinge wrongfully condemned by you and my good sister Heveningham .
I am the bowlder to make this long discourse . to satisfy you if it
$may $be {TEXT:maybe} . PASTONK,53.016.278

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
LETTER:PASTONK_016:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so good sir comendindinge me very kindly to you and my sister . I
shall ever remayne what so ever you esteme me . your very louinge
sister Katherine Paston PASTONK,53.016.279

<Q_PAK_A_1620_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_017> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_53>

{ED:18_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:2_March_1620}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To his honored sister The Lady Paston giue theise PASTONK,53.017.280

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My deare Sister I am very sory to vnderstand of the continuance of your
indisposition of health and no lesse perplexed that I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} afford you my visitation at this present in respect of
many occasions which doth constraine my personall seruice against
theise Assizes . In consideration wherof I desire theise lynes may
excuse mee : PASTONK,53.017.281

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for the busines of the feofment when I came to Norwich I found that Sir
Iohn Heueningham had not giuen any notice of a meeting according to our
aggreement at London . so as my Cosen Sidly could not be with vs no
more could Mr Paston PASTONK,53.017.282

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
neuerthelesse the three of vs present haue agreed vpon theise points :
PASTONK,53.017.283

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
first for the Auditor wee with one consent haue nominated Mr Blofeild
PASTONK,53.017.284

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and to that end I desire you will send for him and let him know so much
if he will vndertake it PASTONK,53.017.285

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
what his fee $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} wee will set downe at our next
meeting which is appointed to bee the two and twentith of this month
PASTONK,53.017.286

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and in the meane time Sir Iohn Heueningham and Sir Thomas Hyrne vpon
tuesday next is to be at ffelmingham to view Mr Crofts his land wherof
you haue a perticuler PASTONK,53.017.287

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and if he will afford it an indifferent penniworth they to conclude for
it if you so like of it before any other : PASTONK,53.017.288

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
If that will not come <P_54> then informe your selfe certainly of
Hasborough PASTONK,54.017.289

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and if Mr Scamler will giue collaterall assurance and make a reasonable
valew wee will goe through for that or Wyton which you will or Sir
Samuell Tryons . PASTONK,54.017.290

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The money that is in hand to be bestowed nowe in our generall
collection before the account be cleered exceedeth not sixe thousand
fiue hundred pounds besids that which is alreadie laid out wherof Sir
Iohn Heueningham is to stay fifteene hundred pound vntill Miclemas next
vpon condition that he shall answer you fowrskore pound for the halfe
yeere promised at Miclemas last and the halfe yeeres profitt at our
Lady next which is 4 li PASTONK,54.017.291

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so if he can put away his land - between this and Miclemas to any
other wee will accept of the li PASTONK,54.017.292

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or if he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} wee will take a farme which he shall
lay out of li per annum all which he taketh kindly and saith he will
performe : PASTONK,54.017.293

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
we haue likewise sent a warrant to Mr Iarmy to prouide all the mony dew
from him before our Lady according to the Decree which is to be payed
In fiue monthes after Miclemas and not fiue monthes after the last
Decree . as they woald haue it PASTONK,54.017.294

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
so likewise Sir Iohn Heueningham is to doe the like so as wee will
vndoubtedlie lay out now presentlie fiue thousand pound
PASTONK,54.017.295

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and you shall receaue rent for the other so as I account by Miclemas
with that alreadie purchased you shall haue coming In aboue li a yeere
: PASTONK,54.017.296

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Be not perplexed either-1 with Sir Iohns Neglect or Mr Pastons Ielowsie
neither of which can hurt you PASTONK,54.017.297

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for although you may take an action of Vnkindnes against Sir Iohn for
omissions yet I doe verilie beleeue he will neuer goe about to wronge
you PASTONK,54.017.298

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
his fault therfore is a sinne of ignorance PASTONK,54.017.299

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
as for the other , his Ielowsie will soone be reconciled
PASTONK,54.017.300

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
be therfore of good cheere PASTONK,54.017.301

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
so long as my leggs will carry mee and my best endeuour may pleasure
you I will neuer faile you : PASTONK,54.017.302

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And so my dear esteemed vntill our mercifull god shall giue permission
vnto our good meeting I doe in the integratie of a faithfull hart
comend to you my best affection wishing you the accomplishment of all
your worthy desires with which I will rest PASTONK,54.017.303

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Norwich PASTONK,54.017.304

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
2=d= Marcij i6i9 PASTONK,54.017.305

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_017:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your deuoted affectionate brother Tho: Holland PASTONK,54.017.306

<Q_PAK_A_1620_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_018> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_54>

{ED:19_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:4_March_1620}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To his honored sister the Lady Paston giue theise PASTONK,54.018.307

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most worthy Sister - Mr Pastons resolution came to late
PASTONK,54.018.308

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for wee made out our warrants yesterday for all the farmers and balies
to attend vs the wedensday after the assize : against which time you
shall doe well to be truly informed of the best penniworths and such
purchases as you best affect and that the owners come or send their
euidence PASTONK,54.018.309

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but come is most materiall PASTONK,54.018.310

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
ffor my cominge now ther is no possibilitie which I am much perplexed
for being <P_55> no lesse desirous in will and effect to be the same
you esteeme mee PASTONK,55.018.311

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and assure your selfe so long as life remayneth in my carcase I will
not faile to performe the best offices your loue meriteth which hath no
proportion and therfore infinite PASTONK,55.018.312

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
excuse now my coming I intreate you which neuer $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} exempted to worke your contentment PASTONK,55.018.313

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
A former excuse you shall haue by Phillip who came away earlie this
morninge and doth come home by ffelmingham PASTONK,55.018.314

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The Newes of our Nephews mariadge I thought I should haue imparted
first PASTONK,55.018.315

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but you haue preuented that PASTONK,55.018.316

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
God increase their happines and all our comforts : PASTONK,55.018.317

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So in more then post hast my deere sister Gods goodnes light vpon you
and yours with my other Sister PASTONK,55.018.318

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and farewell PASTONK,55.018.319

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your rogue was this day branded for an incorrigible rogue
PASTONK,55.018.320

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
4=o= March i6i9 PASTONK,55.018.321

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:46
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_018:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours most faithfully Tho: Holland PASTONK,55.018.322

<Q_PAK_A_1620_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_019> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_55>

{ED:20_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:29_March_1620}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my very louing Sister the Lady Paston geue
these PASTONK,55.019.323

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / my wife & my selfe thinkinge longe to heare of the
recovery of your health haue sent this messenger of purpose to giue vs
certayne notice therof , PASTONK,55.019.324

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& withall I haue sent you by him accordinge to my promise three score &
ten pownd , which was due for the half yeares Rent & ffarme of the
Mannor of Lownd at Mihelmas last & the halfe yeares farme for the
demeanes in Blunston due at Cristmas last PASTONK,55.019.325

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& wheras Sir Thomas Holland did lately wright to me from you that you
had vse of more money then that halfe yeares ffarme , if it please you
I will presently lend you a hundred pownd till Mihelmas ,
PASTONK,55.019.326

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I was now prouided to pay in fifteene hundred pownd in Ready money
beside the farme in Blunston , thinkinge to haue kept the Manor of
Lownd still , because you should see that I did not mistrust the title
of eyther of them both , PASTONK,55.019.327

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but because Sir Thomas Holland sayd that I would turne ouer the worst &
keepe the best penyworth I was willinge you should haue both if it
weare to your likinge , PASTONK,55.019.328

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& wheras I made a motion to him that I would become your ffermor for
the Mannor of Lownde it was in regard I was informed ther might be an
improuement of a seuerall fishinge theare , with bestowinge some or li
charge to make a head to stopp the waters at a certayne place , which
would haue beene a commodyty to me & future good to you & yours ,
PASTONK,55.019.329

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but yesterday heere beinge one Mr Bransby , who was bayly to Mr
Iernegan in those parts a longe tyme , & very well knewe all gentlemens
libertyes theare , he resolued me that in his knowledge it was a comon
fishinge , & what cost was bestowed theare would be lost , whose
speeches hath discoraged me for takinge a lease therof ,
PASTONK,55.019.330

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therfore if it please you to haue <P_56> the sayd Mannor you must
prouide a baylie to gather vp the Rents now due at our Lady ,
PASTONK,56.019.331

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& I shall otherwise dispose of my money , which I had thought to haue
payd in . PASTONK,56.019.332

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus my wife & my selfe recommendinge our best affections to your selfe
, my good brother , & the woorthy Lady Bell , prayinge for the safe
Recouery of your health & desiringe God , that all heauenly & earthly
felicytyes may be multiplied vpon you & your sweet children , I rest
your most assured louinge brother . Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,56.019.333

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,56.019.334

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:43
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:42
LETTER:PASTONK_019:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 29 of March / PASTONK,56.019.335

<Q_PAK_A_1620_T_WDENNY> <L_PASTONK_020> <A_WILLIAM_DENNY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_--->
<R_EDMUND_PASTON[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1585>

<P_56>

{ED:21_WILLIAM_DENNY_TO_SIR_EDMUND_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:6_June_1620}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right Worshipfull Sir Edmond Paston knight & the Lady Katherin
his wife my most speciall Worthy frends at Paston deliver hast
PASTONK,56.020.336

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue pervsed your lettres PASTONK,56.020.337

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& receive most comfort in your acceptacon . PASTONK,56.020.338

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have made an Indorcement upon the backe of the peticion
PASTONK,56.020.339

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& have gott their handes subscribed as yow may see by yt here inclozed
being also resent that mr. Edmond Paston may please also to accompany
yt with his hand to which purpose Phillip must solicite him
PASTONK,56.020.340

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& then I must receive yt to make progression or otherwise as yow shall
thinke fitt . PASTONK,56.020.341

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The purchace for Beccham is Concluded at li : PASTONK,56.020.342

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& possession to be yelded at michaelmas PASTONK,56.020.343

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& then to answere yow the rentes due for the half yere then past .
PASTONK,56.020.344

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Farme of Sir Iohn Heveningham also is now to be conveied &
dispatched as was formerly agreed . PASTONK,56.020.345

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Beccham is to be finished at London this next terme & the other sonne
after / PASTONK,56.020.346

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
mr Iermy is required to pay li part of the li vpon Saturday next to mr
Browne PASTONK,56.020.347

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Sir Samuel Trian & I have caused Philip to make an affidavit
thereof least yf he should faile we might move for an attachment .
PASTONK,56.020.348

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I cann remember noe other thing vpon this suddain PASTONK,56.020.349

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send yow myne & wifes many thankse PASTONK,56.020.350

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& rest euer at your seruice PASTONK,56.020.351

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Norwich PASTONK,56.020.352

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
8 Iune / PASTONK,56.020.353

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND[&_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]]:MALE:_:1585:35_CODE
LETTER:PASTONK_020:E2:1620:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
William Denny . PASTONK,56.020.354

<Q_PAK_A_1621_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_021> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_57>

{ED:22_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:6_November_1621}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my woorthy esteemed Sister the Lady Paston
geue these PASTONK,57.021.355

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most woorthy Sister / I am very sorry that Woodyard hath so much
forgotten himself , & fayled in his promise to me , in not payinge you
his halfe yeares ffarme which was due at Midsommer last ,
PASTONK,57.021.356

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& I am ashamed myselfe that I haue not payd it you all this while ,
which I would haue doone longe before this tyme , if he had not so
faythfully promised the payment therof . PASTONK,57.021.357

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue therfore now sent it you by mr Browne , hopinge the next halfe
yeare at Cristmas he will make speedyer payment therof , which now will
speedyly approch . PASTONK,57.021.358

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue written to Sir Walter Deurveux that he would perfitt the
collaterall assuraunce which he promised to make this Tearme , for the
said ffarme , PASTONK,57.021.359

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& I haue sent to mr Denny to desire him that he may haue care therof ,
PASTONK,57.021.360

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& by the next accompt at Easter I hope the assuraunce of all parts
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} finished , when I am payd all the money which
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} due to me for the same , wherin I doubt not of
your furtheraunce , & of most of the other ffeoffees .
PASTONK,57.021.361

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So commendinnge my wifes & my most true affection vnto your selfe & my
good Brother , wishinge you both & your sweet children all health &
happines , I rest PASTONK,57.021.362

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,57.021.363

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 6=th= of November . 162i ./ PASTONK,57.021.364

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your most assured louinge brother Iohn Hevenyngham ./
PASTONK,57.021.365

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue sent you but xxxij li xs because the fermor was loth to giue
more , by reason of the low price of all things then , contrary to his
promise to me , PASTONK,57.021.366

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:44
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:43
LETTER:PASTONK_021:E2:1621:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I doubt not , but if things hold att the valewe {at}_P thay are now
, it $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} lett for li a yeare , at the expiration of
the lease which $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} at Mihelmas come twelmonth as I
take it ./ PASTONK,57.021.367

<Q_PAK_A_1622_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_022> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_57>

{ED:23_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:13_July_1622}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my woorthely esteemed Sister the Lady Paston geue these
PASTONK,57.022.368

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most worthy Sister / my wife desireth me to be her secretary , she
beinge very busy in preseruinge & to signify vnto you that my moother
is very vnwillinge to haue a married man , PASTONK,57.022.369

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therfore she wold be loth he should haue an ill Iourney to loose his
labor . PASTONK,57.022.370

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I thanke you for your willingnes to lett my wife haue your newe hatt ,
PASTONK,57.022.371

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but she is now resolued not to weare <P_58> any this sommer .
PASTONK,58.022.372

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We weare yesterday at mrs Knyvetts who is very well with her two
children . PASTONK,58.022.373

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus hartely thankinge you for our most kind entertainment at your
house , with our most kind salutations remembred to my good Brother ,
your woorthy selfe & Lady Bell , prayinge God to sende you & your
blessed children , much health & happines , with eternall ioyes
hereafter , I rest PASTONK,58.022.374

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,58.022.375

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 13=th= of July . 1622 . PASTONK,58.022.376

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_022:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your most truly affected Brother Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,58.022.377

<Q_PAK_A_1622_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_023> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_58>

{ED:24_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:27_August_1622}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshipfull my much respected Sister the Lady Paston geue
these PASTONK,58.023.378

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister / I haue sent li to be left for you at Mr Brownes , which
is all the money I Receiued of Woodyard for this last halfe yeare ended
at Middsomer last , PASTONK,58.023.379

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I sent the same by Machett to Maudlin ffayer , whoe Woodyard appointed
to pay him the rest of his ffarme , PASTONK,58.023.380

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& then I did purpose it should haue beene brought altogeather to you ,
PASTONK,58.023.381

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but he faylinge therof & sayinge that I had disposed of the Rest of the
money which is very false , I will wright a very sharpe letter to him ,
both that he shall pay you the rest of the money presently , & to tell
him of his false information . PASTONK,58.023.382

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
you weare mistaken concerninge the marsh which Mr Gilbert hath ,
PASTONK,58.023.383

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for his yeare expireth at our Lady next , PASTONK,58.023.384

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& I do not heare of any lease come out at Mihelmas , PASTONK,58.023.385

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but if ther be any expire then , or that it please you to haue Mr
Gilberts marsh at our Lady , you knowe you haue the comanunde of any
curtesie I can doe you therin , or in any thinge els that lyeth within
the abylitie of my power . PASTONK,58.023.386

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So commendinge my wifes & my most true affection to your selfe & my
good brother , desiringe God to multiply all his blessings vpon you , &
your sweet children , I shall euer remayne Your vnfayned louinge
brother Iohn Heveningham PASTONK,58.023.387

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We will not forgett our kinde remebraunce to the good Lady Bell .
PASTONK,58.023.388

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,58.023.389

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_023:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 27=th= of August . 1622. / PASTONK,58.023.390

<Q_PAK_A_1622_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_024> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_59>

{ED:25_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:30_October_1622}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my woorthely beloued Sister the Lady Paston geve these .
PASTONK,59.024.391

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Sister </paren> the gentleman who oweth the chest of Viols will
not sell them Vnder x li PASTONK,59.024.392

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he sayth they are very good as can be & the chest cost him xvi s .
PASTONK,59.024.393

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
if it please you to send your man hither to see them & if he like them
& you the prise perhaps we may gett them cheaper . PASTONK,59.024.394

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So with my wifes & my most kind affection remembred vnto you , I rest
PASTONK,59.024.395

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,59.024.396

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this of October . 1622. / PASTONK,59.024.397

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
LETTER:PASTONK_024:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assured louinge Brother Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,59.024.398

<Q_PAK_A_1622_FO_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_025>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1577>

<P_59>

{ED:26_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM}

{ED:1622?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my very Asured ... PASTONK,59.025.399

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good brother . I haue heard in deed of the hopefull prosedings betwen
the feoffes and sir Richard Cicele . PASTONK,59.025.400

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I haue heard . that you haue Layd out li towards the sam :
PASTONK,59.025.401

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but did not know whether you had so much besids blunston as li :
PASTONK,59.025.402

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but bye your kinde letter I am now resolved . that you haue layd out li
more then you . yett haue in your hands . the which I can not but most
kindly acksept : PASTONK,59.025.403

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I will with my best strengthe . with my frinds . request it may be
Alowed to you : at your next Acownt . PASTONK,59.025.404

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I am the same for BLunston as heer to fore . PASTONK,59.025.405

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and will procure if posible I cane that it may be ackscepted .
PASTONK,59.025.406

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I make no doupt ofe it . PASTONK,59.025.407

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
if the incombranc namd be no lett : or if I shold be so much crost as I
can not prevayll . then will I by the grase of god . repay you all the
mony that I haue receiued . sinc the first time which as I thinke :
coms to 14 lis : PASTONK,59.025.408

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for Asueredly you shall be no looser bye my ocation .
PASTONK,59.025.409

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I will rayther striue to doe you and yours any good . then hinder ye .
the lest peny : PASTONK,59.025.410

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so good brother . hopinge all $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} to your
content . I will now no longer be trublesum PASTONK,59.025.411

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:45
LETTER:PASTONK_025:E2:1622:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but will end : with my most kinde and true Affecktion to your worthy
self and my good sister to how I wish as to my own hart and so comend
to the mercy of the most hiest PASTONK,59.025.412

<Q_PAK_A_1623_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_026> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_60>

{ED:27_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:26_May_1623}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull his very Louinge Cozen the Lady Katherine
Paston at paston give these PASTONK,60.026.413

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cozen these $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to signifie vnto you that
accordinge to your request made vnto me at our last meetinge at Norwich
. I did send to Mr Thomas Waterman to make a surveaye and a platt of
the Mannor of Midleton neere Appleton . PASTONK,60.026.414

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I sent to the baylie William Gryffine to provide for his diet , and
to speake to diuerse of the Ancient tennantes to informe him of the
groundes and to showe him the same . PASTONK,60.026.415

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Waterman came to me to Appleton the eueninge before I went to London
. PASTONK,60.026.416

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I did agree with him that he shoulde haue borne the Charge of his diet
& of those of the tennantes as shoulde goe with him to showe him the
landes . PASTONK,60.026.417

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and for him selfe he shoulde be allowed a noble a daye for so many
dayes as he shoulde worke aboute the saide survaye and platinge .
PASTONK,60.026.418

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the next Morninge he went about his worke . PASTONK,60.026.419

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haue not talked with him since I came home , PASTONK,60.026.420

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I vnderstand by one of the tennantes that he tooke so much paines
about the sayd Surveye that he was almost tyred before he could make an
end , and soe went home , hath appoynted <paren> as I am informed
</paren> to goe againe to make an end of his worke which when he hath
done I will send you a bill both for the Charge of his dyet & the
tennantes and for his fees which you must take order to be payd .
PASTONK,60.026.421

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe further let you vnderstand that at my beinge at London this
tearme , I and Mr Blofeild and your man Mr Alpe went to Mr Denny the
Councellor PASTONK,60.026.422

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and there I shewed & deliuered vnto him a Copye of a bill which I haue
procured and Mr Iames Legge <paren> whoe as I am informed </paren> is
very skillfull in draweing of bills in the Chauncerie To the end that
Mr Deny might the better vnderstand the busines , although I left out
diuerse thinges wherein I did further instructe the sayd Mr Denny , who
toulde me that he would drawe a very efectuall bill , and after he had
doone , he and Mr Blofeild woulde goe both to Mr Thomas Criwe to haue
his opinion Concerninge the same . PASTONK,60.026.423

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
what was done since I doe not knowe for that I cam from London with in
two or three dayes after . PASTONK,60.026.424

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nowe it resteth that I aduise you to sende to Mr Blofeild to come to
you as soone as he cometh home , & to knowe of him what is done more
Concerninge this busines . PASTONK,60.026.425

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
with the Conferrence which I haue had with Mr Blofeild and the not
allowinge of almost li which Mr Iermy doth demande to be alowede him
for sutes commensed against him in the Chancerie by my selfe & Sir
Edmund Paston , which I denye should not be alowed him , out of the
feoffees stocke I thinke there $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} proued that there
remayne in his handes well nigh li which I doubt $will $be {TEXT:wilbe}
hardly recouered with out sute , for that I suppose he will denye a
great parte of the money to be dewe from him PASTONK,60.026.426

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And therfore seeinge the benefite is to redounde to Sir Edmund Paston
and your selfe , I doe aduise you to send to Mr Denny and to talke with
<P_61> Mr Blofeild to vnderstand howe this Matter must farther be
proceeded in . PASTONK,61.026.427

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So good Madame Comendinge my selfe to Sir Edmund Paston & yourselfe I
leaue you . PASTONK,61.026.428

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Townebarningham PASTONK,61.026.429

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 26=th= of Maye 1623 . PASTONK,61.026.430

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_026:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your very louing Cozen Edward Paston PASTONK,61.026.431

<Q_PAK_A_1623_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_027> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_61>

{ED:28_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:11_September_1623}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull his very Louinge Cozen the Lady Katherin
Paston at Paston deliuer these PASTONK,61.027.432

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cosin I haue thought good to signifie unto you , that whereas I
did heretofore tell your selfe & the other feoffees that I desired to
hire the groundes about Midleton Tower which Conteyneth by Measure
about acres And your selfe & they were very willinge I shoulde hire the
same . I did heretofore onely appoynte a man of myne to vewe them , &
by his aduice I did purpose to hire them . PASTONK,61.027.433

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but three dayes agoe I went to vewe them my selfe , PASTONK,61.027.434

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I found this inconveniance , that the groundes must be fenced
towarde the Comon <paren> as I iudge a quarter of a myle </paren> .
PASTONK,61.027.435

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I must besides make some division of the groundes for hey for my
horses to farther them in Winter , PASTONK,61.027.436

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I doe not see that vppon the grounde there is not any fenceing wood
at all to be taken , nor in the Cuntrye there about to be bought for
Money . PASTONK,61.027.437

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So whereas my purpose was to hire the sayd groundes to keepe my horses
& gyldinges in , I see it $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be donne with out
there be assigned vnto me vnderwood to fence the groundes .
PASTONK,61.027.438

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore I am very willinge to leaue the sayd groundes & not to
hire them . So that your Ladyshipp may lett them to whome {to}_P you
please . PASTONK,61.027.439

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The price that I shoulde haue payd is eight shillinges an acre ,
PASTONK,61.027.440

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And a servant of myne whose name is Edward Gogney telleth me that he
will willingly give eight shillinges an acre for a lease for seven or
eight yeares And will keepe in good reparacions to tower at Midleton &
soe leaue it <paren> if it be repared to his hand , when he enter his
lease . PASTONK,61.027.441

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I will write noe more in his behalfe , but that he is well able to paye
his farme . PASTONK,61.027.442

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And 8 s an acre I iudge to be as much as the ground is worth ,
PASTONK,61.027.443

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yet I leaue it to your Consideracion to lett the sayd groundes & tower
to what farmer you thinke good , PASTONK,61.027.444

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I further signifie vnto you that at my beinge at Midleton the other day
there mett me as I cam homeward a man <paren> who as I am Informed did
carrie a Nagge to my Cozen William to Paston PASTONK,61.027.445

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he tovlde me , your Ladyshipp had given him leaue to take some stone at
your stone pitt in Midleton , PASTONK,61.027.446

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I made some doubt for that he brought noe note in writinge from your
selfe nor from your servant Mr Alpe . PASTONK,61.027.447

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore I desire to knowe whether you gaue him leave or not , And
how many loades of stone you are willinge that he shall haue . And that
you will write so much vnto me . PASTONK,61.027.448

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am informed by diuerse credible persons in Midleton that <P_62> a
good parte of the groundes about the Tower of Medleton are drowned with
salte water , let in by the towne of Lynn for the longer grindinge of
their Mylls there . PASTONK,62.027.449

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
it is a great hindrance to the groundes PASTONK,62.027.450

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and will in tyme be more & more , if it be not remided .
PASTONK,62.027.451

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Vppon the 23. of this present Moneth the Comissioners for the Scewers
will meet at Lynn . PASTONK,62.027.452

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe purpose to be there my selfe & to speake what I can as well for
the Common of Midleton as for the seuerall groundes there to haue some
order that Lynn men may not let in so much water for the grest of their
Mylls to the hurte of their Neighbours . PASTONK,62.027.453

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
You should doe well to send to the rest of the feoffeess yf none of
them $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} there but my selfe to write vnto me to
deale earnestly in their behalfe as in myne , PASTONK,62.027.454

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for otherwise the towne of Lynn will suppose that I deale in this mater
alone which $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} to me some what distastfull .
PASTONK,62.027.455

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So good cozen Comendinge me to Sir Edmund & your selfe I leaue you
PASTONK,62.027.456

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Appleton PASTONK,62.027.457

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this xi=th= of September 1623 /; PASTONK,62.027.458

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:53
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:45
LETTER:PASTONK_027:E2:1623:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your very Louing Cozen Edward paston PASTONK,62.027.459

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_028> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_63>

{ED:30_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:2_January_1624}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the right Worshippfull his verie louinge Cosin the Ladie Katherin
Paston at Paston hall giue these PASTONK,63.028.460

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cosin . I doe keepe still the two bills which you sente vnto me
concerninge our suites with mr Iermy in the Chancery whereof the
answere of mr Iermy to the seconde bill which is by vs exhibited
against him I haue particulerly pervsed the same , and gathered out
notes of those matters wherein <paren> as I thinke </paren> he doth
wronge vs and vniustly Charge vs in matters of that importance , and so
much concerninge our Credittes that I iudge it verie fitt to make
Replicacion to the same . PASTONK,63.028.461

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Abovt this busines I purpose <paren> god willinge </paren> if I be well
and that great frostes and snowes doe not hinder my travell </paren> to
goe to Thorpe vpon the first day of the next Sessions .
PASTONK,63.028.462

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I desire that you will come the same day to Norwich , for that the
next day I woulde wee might hold a meetinge of all the feoffees and mr
Denny at the maides heade that we might haue A Conferrance about this
matter , and especially aboute the exhibitinge of a peticion <paren> yf
mr Denny and the other feoffees shall thinke it good </paren> to my
Lorde Keeper as an Answere to the order which his Lordship hath set
downe concerninge mr Iermys peticion . PASTONK,63.028.463

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in any wyse we must meete all PASTONK,63.028.464

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I suppose that we must set our handes to the peticion . Wherefore I
pray you good Cosin that you will sende a man of purpose to Sir Iohn
Heveningham Sir Thomas Holland Sir Thomas Hyrne and mr Martyn Sidley to
request them , that wee may meete together vpon Wedensday come senight
that we may have A Conferrance together , PASTONK,63.028.465

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and then I will bringe with me the two bills which you sent me , and
such notes as I haue made Concerninge the same . PASTONK,63.028.466

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I desire you that you will bringe to Norwich with you the bill of
Complaynt exhibited against sir Iohn Heveningham and me and mr Iermy by
Sir Edmunde Paston in the Chancery and the Answeare to the same .
PASTONK,63.028.467

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So good Madame with my Comendacions to Sir Edmunde and your selfe I
leave you . PASTONK,63.028.468

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Appleton PASTONK,63.028.469

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this seeounde of Ianuary 1623 PASTONK,63.028.470

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_028:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your Loveinge Cosin Edward Paston PASTONK,63.028.471

<Q_PAK_A_1624?_FO_THOLLAND> <L_PASTONK_029> <A_THOMAS_HOLLAND>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1574>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_64>

{ED:31_SIR_THOMAS_HOLLAND_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:1624_?}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To his Honored Sister the Lady Paston at Paston giue this
PASTONK,64.029.472

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My deer Sister I shall very wellinglie subscribe to the bill and
iustifie all that is within my cognazance PASTONK,64.029.473

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but be suer euery thing which is inserted against be preciselie to be
proued PASTONK,64.029.474

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for assure your selfe it will so startle him that he will extend all
his able to worke his teene vpon the familie PASTONK,64.029.475

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I ioyne with their opinion who would not giue him so long a vacation to
put his ill intentions in practize , PASTONK,64.029.476

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I condiscend to that you $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} best advised ,
PASTONK,64.029.477

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am glad you haue Sir Iohn Heueningham a long with vs :
PASTONK,64.029.478

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To satisfie your desire to know what mony I was in bond for to Sir
Rychard Cecill for the purchase of Midleton . It was fower skore twelue
pownd sixe shillings eight pence which I entred band to pay Sir Rychard
Cecill the 23 of November after the purchase made which I gaue Mr Iarmy
notice of by my letter PASTONK,64.029.479

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and desired the mony that he had receiued of Caister rents towards the
payment of it which he refused to pay : PASTONK,64.029.480

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall wish a happy proceeding and good successe and your deserved
comfortable reward for your sonne for your high meritt
PASTONK,64.029.481

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOLLAND:MALE:KIN:1574:50?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_029:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And so my sweet Sister with myne and my wifes best respect to you I
rest Your faithfull louing brother Tho. Holland PASTONK,64.029.482

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FN_W5PASTON> <L_PASTONK_030> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1610>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_64>

{ED:32_WILLIAM_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:26_January_1624}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most Deare and honored Mother , The Right Worshipfull The Lady
Paston att paston Hall . PASTONK,64.030.483

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
May itt Speede Most honored and Deare mother , PASTONK,64.030.484

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Lorde Be Thanked I haue had my health pretty well since I came
hether . PASTONK,64.030.485

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am fainte to play the Sirgion , with my Tutors finger which was a
pitteful one , PASTONK,64.030.486

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But now I haue Brought itt to a fine passe , PASTONK,64.030.487

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is euen well . PASTONK,64.030.488

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Deare mother I will euer haue your precepts in my minde puttinge them
allwaies in practice , PASTONK,64.030.489

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I hope iff I obey them I shall still Keepe your accostomed Loue
which , next to the grace of god , I esteeme aboue anie thinge .
PASTONK,64.030.490

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kinge is expected heere one Candlemas day or the day after .
PASTONK,64.030.491

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We heare no newes att all this weeke PASTONK,64.030.492

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
euery Saturday your Ladiship shall haue a Letter from me or my Tutor ,
if they doe not miscary By the carrier . PASTONK,64.030.493

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This 26 day I haue not <P_65> hearde from your Ladiship ruffes ,
PASTONK,65.030.494

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
standinge comons , <paren> in pottage </paren> amounteth to a penny a
weeke . PASTONK,65.030.495

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The master is very thankfull to you ffor your greate gift ,
PASTONK,65.030.496

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembringe his hartiest sseruice to your Ladiship so with my humblest
dutie , to yovr sellfe , and my ffather , Beseeching god to showre
downe his Blessings one you : and all your housholde . I rest your
Dutifull and obedient sonne Will: Paston PASTONK,65.030.497

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
College Corpus Christy PASTONK,65.030.498

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ian 26 day PASTONK,65.030.499

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_030:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Good mother Remember my Best Loue to my Brother : Cosin Abigall . and
mrs Willson . mr Brende : PASTONK,65.030.500

<Q_PAK_A_1624?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_031>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_65>

{ED:33_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:January_1624?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloued William paston these be deliuered at Cambridge
PASTONK,65.031.501

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good Child the $Lord blese the ever more in all thy goinges ovtt and
thy Cominges in . euen in all thy ways words and words , for his mercy
sake : PASTONK,65.031.502

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was very glad to heer by your first letter that you wer so saffly
arriued at your wished portt . but more glade to reade thy Louinge
promises to parforme my desiers : which I hope in god shall allways
redownd to thy cheefest good bothe-2 for this , and the Liffe to come .
PASTONK,65.031.503

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and remember that now is the cheefest time to gayne the truest good
bothe-1 for sowll and body : PASTONK,65.031.504

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your Cunditt of Comfort tells you : that : " the seeds which now in
youth you sowe : " " springe vp and sprout increase and grow : "
wherfore Labor to sowe : | PASTONK,65.031.505

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for your grownd is as the tilled earthe , PASTONK,65.031.506

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if you sowe good seed , you shall reape a plentifull and comfortable
Crope : PASTONK,65.031.507

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if it shold lie still with out good seed , it doth naturally bringe
forthe noysom weeds : | PASTONK,65.031.508

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I coold wish that you wold settell your self to certin howers tasks
euery day you rise : PASTONK,65.031.509

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and those howld your self too with out any wearines :
PASTONK,65.031.510

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the vse of it wold make it bothe easy and pleasent to you : |
PASTONK,65.031.511

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it may be at the first it will seem Laborious to you :
PASTONK,65.031.512

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but you must remember . that the sonns of Adam wear borne to digge and
delue : euen in the sweat of our browes : | PASTONK,65.031.513

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Likewis wisdom is not fownd PASTONK,65.031.514

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but is as hidden treasuer . which must be digged for affter much scerch
to finde it out : | PASTONK,65.031.515

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this I thought good to put the in minde of . $veryily beleuinge thou
wilt doe this for my sake but more cheefly for thyn owne : that I may
$receive the from that plase adorned bothe-3 with devine and humayne
Learninge to my sowls comfort PASTONK,65.031.516

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for nothinge in this Liffe can be so cordiall to me as . $shall $be
{TEXT:shallbe} thy vertuous and Ciuill $behavior PASTONK,65.031.517

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now I thanke the for thy kinde token sent me in your first letter :
PASTONK,65.031.518

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and allso I haue received two other letters this last by Iohnsons . by
whom I did not wright , becawse this mesenger will be with you sooner
than he :/ in all which of thy most louinge letters I haue thy
faythefull promises redubled . wherfor I haue no doupt of the
parformanc of them seinge thay be allwas in thy minde : |
PASTONK,65.031.519

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your father comende him to the PASTONK,65.031.520

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and doe acsepet kindly of the token you sent him , PASTONK,65.031.521

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sends you this s for a remembranc of his Love : PASTONK,65.031.522

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ascept <P_66> of this other from me till a better com :
PASTONK,66.031.523

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your brother is very well , PASTONK,66.031.524

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and have sent you a letter of his own indittinge as you may se .
PASTONK,66.031.525

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but mr brend was his clarke : PASTONK,66.031.526

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he tells you all the newes is sturinge : PASTONK,66.031.527

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will conclude as I begane with my harty prayers to the allmighty for
all true hapines to be mulltiplied to the bothe now and ever
PASTONK,66.031.528

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my sweet will : for this time : | PASTONK,66.031.529

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,66.031.530

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
remember my good respect to your worthy master : | PASTONK,66.031.531

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_031:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Linnicars' watter worke and his glasinge worke dothe very well : as may
be : PASTONK,66.031.532

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_032> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_66>

{ED:34_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:5_February_1624}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the right worthy and my much Honored Sister the Lady Paston geue
these ./ PASTONK,66.032.533

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most worthy Sister / you haue shewed so many testimonyes of your Loue
to my wife , and in her to me , as she doth esteeme you next her owne
Moother the best freinde she hath , PASTONK,66.032.534

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
we can render you nothinge but our thankfull harts for the same , and
our beste endeauours to performe all sincere offices of your most
affected ffreindes . PASTONK,66.032.535

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My wifes cough <paren> thankes be to God </paren> is well abated ; by
meanes wherof she resteth better then she did , eateth and disgesteth
her meate reasonably well , that we are all now in good comfort and
hope of her recouery , PASTONK,66.032.536

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
her new Doctor is with her euery other day , PASTONK,66.032.537

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and sayth that all must be done by degrees , PASTONK,66.032.538

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for if the cough should be sodaynely taken away , ther may be a worse
inconvenience thervppon , PASTONK,66.032.539

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but still she continueth weake and fainte , PASTONK,66.032.540

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray God dayly to encrease her strenght , and blesse all meanes that
are intended for the recouery of her health . PASTONK,66.032.541

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My wife $can $not {TEXT:cannot} forgett your dreame ,
PASTONK,66.032.542

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for Mr Gawdy and Mrs Iermy cam hither that afternoone you went away ,
PASTONK,66.032.543

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I am sure Mrs Iermy was not heere this 7 yeares before .
PASTONK,66.032.544

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Gawdy had a fitt of an ague at Claxton vpon Sunday last , that it
seemes he had a good mynde to come hither this next day ,
PASTONK,66.032.545

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he hath had two fittes heere , PASTONK,66.032.546

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and we sent him home , & my sonne to accompany him this day in my coach
. PASTONK,66.032.547

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
he maketh much of my daughter , PASTONK,66.032.548

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and ther is now great likelyhood of the proceedinge of the match , if
God crosse it not otherwise . PASTONK,66.032.549

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus presuminge you thought longe to heare from vs , with our most true
and harty affections remembred to your selfe and my good Brother ,
wishinge all prosperyty to you both , & to your sweete children , I
shall euer remayne PASTONK,66.032.550

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,66.032.551

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 5=o= of ffebruary , 1623. / PASTONK,66.032.552

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_032:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your vnfayned louinge brother Iohn Heveningham PASTONK,66.032.553

<Q_PAK_A_1624_T_SWALSALL> <L_PASTONK_033> <A_SAMUEL_WALSALL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1575>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_67>

{ED:35_DR._SAMUEL_WALSALL_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:23_February_1624}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right Worshipfull my most worthie friend , the Ladie Paston at
Paston PASTONK,67.033.554

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Madame , It hath pleased you now the second time to reach out your
bountifull hand to me : which I embrace , as becometh me , with all
thankfull acknowledgment . PASTONK,67.033.555

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I thinke , I may truely say ; I have never , vpon so little
acquaintance , and desert , received so much courtesie , & bountie from
any . PASTONK,67.033.556

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so standing bound in a double obligation ; of conscience , &
thankfulness ; if I should not have a singular care of your hopefull
sonn , I were not iustly to be ranked in the number of Christians .
PASTONK,67.033.557

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I perceive , your Ladiship feared his excess at tennis .
PASTONK,67.033.558

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
though I am persuaded </paren> there is not any exercise more wholsome
, & not many more gentlemanlike : yet by <paren> Gods blessing </paren>
to prevent daunger , & inconvenience , which might growe by the
immoderate , or vnseasonable vse thereof , I have prescribed him howers
of exercise somewhat more particularly , then I had formerly donn ,
allotting to morning exercise , till somewhat past eight ; to breakfast
, till nine ; to studie , from nine till eleven : in the after-noon ,
to recreation in the garden , till one ; to studie , from one till
somewhat past three ; to exercise , till prayers . PASTONK,67.033.559

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
These & any other our courses taken , or to be taken , I now doe , &
ever shall humbly submit to be moderated , or altered at your good
pleasure . PASTONK,67.033.560

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This my prescribing he entertained cheerfully , PASTONK,67.033.561

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& these howers he observes carefully . PASTONK,67.033.562

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I finde him of disposition very flexible to good councell & order : in
which I much ioy . PASTONK,67.033.563

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his conversation & demeanour is generally , not onely approoved , but
applauded . PASTONK,67.033.564

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
his health <paren> I thanke God </paren> is sound . PASTONK,67.033.565

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And that he may ever so continue , & be blessed with long life , &
sound health , & all the blessinge of the right mercies : into whose
mercifull & blessing hands in like manner I humbly commend your
Ladiship to whome I am so exceedingly beholding . PASTONK,67.033.566

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
With my service & Love commended to Sir Edmund , & your Ladiship , I
rest PASTONK,67.033.567

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Corpus Christi Cambridge PASTONK,67.033.568

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Februar. PASTONK,67.033.569

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_WALSALL:MALE:_:1575:49
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_033:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Ladiships firmely obliged , & faithfully devoted , Samuel Walsalls
PASTONK,67.033.570

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_034> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_67>

{ED:36_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:24_February_1624}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my much Honored Sister the Lady Paston geue these ./
PASTONK,67.034.571

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Worthy Sister / you may be assured that I will alwayes acquaint you
with any thinge concerninge the estate of Sir William Paston before I
conclude therof , PASTONK,67.034.572

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and will not doe any thinge without your approbation .
PASTONK,67.034.573

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And <P_68> seinge you like so well of the scoller I sent to you ,
beinge so recommended to vs by the Bishopp , I haue thought good to
giue him my allowance to be in that place . PASTONK,68.034.574

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My wife desireth to be excused that she wrighteth not to you her selfe
, PASTONK,68.034.575

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for she hath begonne in a course of Phisicke PASTONK,68.034.576

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and Doctor Rant , yesterday beinge the first day , he hopeth well of
her , although she hath beene very ill since you weare last with her ,
PASTONK,68.034.577

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
she hath had a very soare cough , PASTONK,68.034.578

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
is sicke for the most part after her meate , PASTONK,68.034.579

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yett eateth litle or nothinge , PASTONK,68.034.580

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
is kept from sleepe with her cough , PASTONK,68.034.581

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
is much trobled with shortnes of breath , all which the Phisitians
agree {TEXT:of} , are signes that she is in a comsumption .
PASTONK,68.034.582

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We both hartely thanke you for your kinde letters , & for sendinge
hither of purpose to vs . PASTONK,68.034.583

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We can retourne you nothinge but thankfulnes for the same ,
PASTONK,68.034.584

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and desire your harty prayers for the recouery of her health ,
PASTONK,68.034.585

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for if it should please God to lay such a crosse vpon vs , as to take
her away , ther was neuer man nor poore children had such a losse .
PASTONK,68.034.586

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So recommendinge my wifes and my most kind affection vnto you , I shall
euer remayne , PASTONK,68.034.587

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,68.034.588

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 24th of ffebruary 1623. / PASTONK,68.034.589

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your most affectionate louinge brother Iohn Heveningham .
PASTONK,68.034.590

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
We had almost forgott to certefy you how the match went forward which
you so louingly desired to knowe , which hangs now in suspence in
difference of li betweene vs , PASTONK,68.034.591

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but my Lady Gawdy was never kinder to my wife then now she is , in
sendinge her $condiments PASTONK,68.034.592

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& came hither vpon ffriday last of purpose to see her ,
PASTONK,68.034.593

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
thay weare merry togeather , PASTONK,68.034.594

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
she sayth my wife must yeeld , PASTONK,68.034.595

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& my wife telleth her she must yeeld . PASTONK,68.034.596

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Once agayne we comend our best loue to my good brother & your selfe ,
PASTONK,68.034.597

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_034:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& wish all happines to you , & your sweete children .
PASTONK,68.034.598

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_035> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_68>

{ED:37_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:12_April_1624}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull his very Louinge Cozen the Lady Dame Katherin
Paston at Paston hall deliuer these PASTONK,68.035.599

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cousin , although I sente you a mesage by mr Edwarde Cooke
Concerninge your travelinge to London and our busines there . Yet that
nothinge may $be $forgotten {TEXT:beforgotten} I haue thought good to
write particulerly vnto you . PASTONK,68.035.600

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
first you must remember in any wyse when you come vpp to London to
bringe vp with you the decree which my late Lorde Chanclor made for the
disbursment of such somes of Money as was confessed by the old feoffees
to be restinge in their handes . PASTONK,68.035.601

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Item I doe further signifie vnto you that I haue a copie of the bill
exhibited by Sir Edmunde Paston against Sir Iohn Heveningham my selfe
and mr Iermy which I will not fayle to sende or bringe vpp to London .
PASTONK,68.035.602

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir Iohn Heveningham and mr Iermies Answere I haue not ,
PASTONK,68.035.603

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therefore you must in any wyse <P_69> remember to bringe vp the same
PASTONK,69.035.604

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And you must also remember to bringe vp the copie of the bill which Sir
Edmunde Paston your selfe and the other feoffees did nowe last of all
exhibit vnto the Chancery against mr Iermy . PASTONK,69.035.605

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And you must bringe vp also his Answere . PASTONK,69.035.606

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I purpose <paren> god willinge </paren> to take my iourney towardes
London vpon the nynteenth day of this presente moneth of Aprill next
cominge PASTONK,69.035.607

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I determyne to lye at Newmarkett the next night beinge the
twentieth day . PASTONK,69.035.608

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And if you purpose to goe to London <paren> yf you haue no greater
busines </paren> but to followe the cause against mr Iermy </paren> I
woulde we might meete together that night that we may travell both
together to London PASTONK,69.035.609

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for yf you goe before I doubt that till I come vp you shall dispatch
but a litell busines . PASTONK,69.035.610

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nowe as Concerninge the purchase of Skeiton of mr Myles Hobarte I
woulde haue you to be very well advised howe you deale and what you
agree vnto PASTONK,69.035.611

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for mr Roberte ffeilden toulde me that mr Mallos <paren> who is the
saide mr Hobartes soliciter </paren> toulde you that I did offer for
the saide purchase two thousande poundes which I deney I did never
offer . PASTONK,69.035.612

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<paren> onely I asked him as mr ffeilden can testify </paren> whether
mr Hobarte woulde take two thousande poundes PASTONK,69.035.613

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore I would haue you to be very carefull to enquier what the
saide Mannor is worth . PASTONK,69.035.614

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So good Madame Comendinge me to Sir Edmunde and your salfe I leave you
PASTONK,69.035.615

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Appleton PASTONK,69.035.616

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this xii=th= of Aprill 1624 /: PASTONK,69.035.617

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_035:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your very Louinge coozen Edward paston PASTONK,69.035.618

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTONK_036> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1577>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_69>

{ED:38_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:23_April_1624}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my most esteemed & woorthy Sister the Lady Paston geue these ./
PASTONK,69.036.619

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most worthy Sister / we see by dayly experience how mindfull you are of
any courtesy you can performe to vs . PASTONK,69.036.620

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My wife liketh the wastcoates so well , & the good pennyworth of them ,
that she purposeth to keepe them both , PASTONK,69.036.621

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& hartely thanketh you for them . PASTONK,69.036.622

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
She hath now left all her Phisicke PASTONK,69.036.623

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
& hath sent to my Lady Knyvett to speak to her Phisitian at London , to
haue some cordiall waters from him , who is accowntedd a very rare man
for diseases of that kind , & hath cured many . PASTONK,69.036.624

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My wife would desire you {TEXT:that} if one of your men might repayre
to my Lady Knyvett , for those things <paren> if thay be not sent by
the carriers this weeke </paren> so to buy a tronke , & send them
safely the next weeke , & also to pay my Lady Knyvett for them .
PASTONK,69.036.625

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So desiringe God to heare our prayers for my wifes recouery of her
health , we comend our sincere & harty affections vnto you ,
PASTONK,69.036.626

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} euer ready at your dispose
PASTONK,69.036.627

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Kettringham PASTONK,69.036.628

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 23=rd= of Aprill . 1624 / PASTONK,69.036.629

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:KIN:1577:47
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_036:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Iohn Hevenyngham PASTONK,69.036.630

<Q_PAK_A_1624?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_037>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_70>

{ED:39_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:April_1624_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : Christ Iesus blese the ever : PASTONK,70.037.631

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did take thy wrightinge to me in very kinde parte , seinge that at
that time thow mightest haue pretended wearines withe travill yett
woldest not make that any lett to hinder me of thy most louinge and
respectiue lines , the which wear and ever shall be most well com to me
, PASTONK,70.037.632

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was glad to heer of your prosperous Iorny , and of the kind wellcom
which you fownd from that worthy master .| whom , I wold by any means
thou sholdest haue a very reverend respect ofe :| PASTONK,70.037.633

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and beware good child that thou be not too talketiue befor him , but
only to learne what is fittinge behauiour for you to use before him
PASTONK,70.037.634

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that observe and doe : PASTONK,70.037.635

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
be louinge to thy tutor honest mr Roberts PASTONK,70.037.636

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be ruled by his aduis in all things PASTONK,70.037.637

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I repos a spetiall trust in him for thy good :| PASTONK,70.037.638

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
be Carfull in your recreations for over heatinge your blude .
PASTONK,70.037.639

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if at any time you sweat or be too hote , doe not drinke till you
haue made watter , PASTONK,70.037.640

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so you know you wear wont to doe at hom :| PASTONK,70.037.641

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now you must haue a mighty care of your self PASTONK,70.037.642

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ore ells it will be as much as $my life is worthe too .|
PASTONK,70.037.643

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
medell not good $child withe any of the towns men ther .
PASTONK,70.037.644

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in earnest or Ieast . provke non to anger PASTONK,70.037.645

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Conduct $your self {TEXT:ourself} well and louingly to all sorts :
PASTONK,70.037.646

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$And $now $the blesinge of god all mighty the father $his blesed
spirite be euer more upon $thy $body and sowll PASTONK,70.037.647

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
amen PASTONK,70.037.648

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farewell good $Will : PASTONK,70.037.649

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in hast written by thy $louing $mother $Katherine $Paston
PASTONK,70.037.650

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke the good will for thy kinde token . PASTONK,70.037.651

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_037:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $will $be {TEXT:willbe} in thy dept for it and paye my dept by the
next saff mesinger PASTONK,70.037.652

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FO_EDPASTON> <L_PASTONK_038> <A_EDWARD_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1570>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_KIN>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_70>

{ED:40_EDWARD_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:29_May_1624}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Worshippfull his very Louinge Cozen the Lady Katherine
Paston at Paston deliuer these PASTONK,70.038.653

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cozen here was with me two dayes agoe Mr Watermans sonne who
brought me worde that his father hath made an end of the platt of
Middleton and is redye to deliuer the same , PASTONK,70.038.654

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am of opinion that if the sayd platt shoulde cost you an hundred
Merkes it were well bestowed : PASTONK,70.038.655

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for by the same you and the heires of the Mannor May at all tymes
hereafter knowne and se all the demeane and Coppyholde landes of the
Mannor . <paren> and as I take it the free holdes also which without
the platt you can <P_71> hardly doe for that I haue not seene any
perfect Serveye before . PASTONK,71.038.656

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nowe <paren> to make this platt a good peece of Evidence there must
first a courte be warned and all the Tenantes to haue them notice given
of the day when the sayd Courte $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} kept , and
they all charged to come to the same , PASTONK,71.038.657

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And the warrant for the sayd Courte must be made by all the feoffees
vnder there handes , and Mr Iermy him selfe yf he will sett his hand
there to , And the daye sett downe when the Courte $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} kept . PASTONK,71.038.658

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And although I doe well allowe that Mr Edward Cooke shall keepe the
other courtes of the sayd Mannor . yet this particuler courte I thinke
it fitt to haue it kept by Mr Thomas Blofeilde bot for that he is the
feoffees Auditor a very good attorney at the Common law and hath ben a
longe courte keeper and hath greate experience in keepinge of Courtes
PASTONK,71.038.659

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for it may be there will rise some questons such as Mr Cooke being but
latly vsed to keepe any courtes $can $not {TEXT:cannot} easilie deside
it . PASTONK,71.038.660

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
This busines may be lett a lone till after the terme or the assisses .
PASTONK,71.038.661

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Whereas I writt vnto you that I purposed to terrie here vntill tuesdaye
next , I doe purpose to goe to Townebarningham vpon munday next ,
assoone as I haue dinde PASTONK,71.038.662

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore if you haue any business you must sende vnto me to
Townebarningham where I purpose to tarrie fower or fiue dayes .
PASTONK,71.038.663

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
So good Madame commendinge me to you and yours , I leaue you
PASTONK,71.038.664

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thorpe PASTONK,71.038.665

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this 29=th= of May 1624 / PASTONK,71.038.666

AUTHOR:EDWARD_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1570:54
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:KIN:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_038:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your very Louing Cozen Edward paston PASTONK,71.038.667

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_039>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_71>

{ED:41_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:11_June_1624}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my very wellbeloued sonne william Paston these I pray at his
lodginge in Corpus Christy Colledge Cambridge PASTONK,71.039.668

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : I doe much desire to heer how you doe ,
PASTONK,71.039.669

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you haue receiued my late letters written to mr Roberts and you
:| PASTONK,71.039.670

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
take heed to your selfe good child , that I may here a good report of
your Ciuill and kinde behaiour . towards all . PASTONK,71.039.671

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but cheeffly haue an espetiall care to fear and serue god :
PASTONK,71.039.672

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lett it be the first and last thinge you thinke of . PASTONK,71.039.673

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then be sure the blesinge of the allmighty will preserue you in all
your ways . PASTONK,71.039.674

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he never fayled those who trusted in him and duely served him :|
PASTONK,71.039.675

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and next beware of violent tennisinge or leapinge or any other thinge
which shall hinder your healthe : PASTONK,71.039.676

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
take heed of frute of all sorts if you eate any . PASTONK,71.039.677

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
eate very moderately PASTONK,71.039.678

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for to much ocation ofte times much sikenes : PASTONK,71.039.679

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent in my last letter , that mr Roberts wold doe so much as by you a
tamill gowne to wear this summer PASTONK,71.039.680

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope it is done :| PASTONK,71.039.681

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe much longe to heer of you PASTONK,71.039.682

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and god grant I may heer comfortable news :| PASTONK,71.039.683

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your kinde ante Bell remembers her loue to you PASTONK,71.039.684

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you a boxe of Iuse of likorous . PASTONK,71.039.685

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it will stay the ruhum . when tobaka will not :| PASTONK,71.039.686

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hop to heer you still hate the very smell of tobaca :
PASTONK,71.039.687

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you a pece of gowld for a token . PASTONK,71.039.688

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if thow doest well and be ruled by thy tutore in all things , for
thy good : then thow shalt be <P_72> sur to want nothinge that I can
doe for the : PASTONK,72.039.689

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so the Lords blesinge be for euer more upon thy sowle and body
PASTONK,72.039.690

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell good will PASTONK,72.039.691

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,72.039.692

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Comend me very kindly to the master and to good mr Roberts .
PASTONK,72.039.693

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
wright to me as oft as thow canst PASTONK,72.039.694

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so agayne farwell : PASTONK,72.039.695

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_039:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
friday the 11=th= of Iune 1624 :| PASTONK,72.039.696

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_040>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_72>

{ED:42_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:25_June_1624}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : the $mercyfull blesinge of our heavenly god be euer more
upon the , PASTONK,72.040.697

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am not a littell glad , and comforted with thy most louinge linnes ,
by which I see that thow hast a desire to heer often frome me ,
PASTONK,72.040.698

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy offten wrightinge to me makes me see , that thow hast a good
minde to speake offten withe me , PASTONK,72.040.699

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy good desire to see me onc a day : eune all these things
springinge from thy dutyfull loue to me : shall make me bethinke me
still , which way I may doe thee most good . yea . and all the good I
cane : PASTONK,72.040.700

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
goe on my good chilld in thy well doings , PASTONK,72.040.701

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and allways remember , it is a greater prayse to keep prayse ; then to
gett prayse :| PASTONK,72.040.702

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Continew thy great respect to that most worthy Master who I heer is so
exedinge louinge and kinde to the , for the which I will not be
vngratefull to him : PASTONK,72.040.703

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And likewis it dothe mee good to heer that thow doest bothe Carfully
obserue and louingly respecte thy good tutor honest mr Roberts : who I
know will be as glad of thy well doinge as any frinde can bee :|
PASTONK,72.040.704

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I confes I coolde haue bine content , and I shold haue pleased my self
for the present much better , to haue kepte the allwas at hom with me :
PASTONK,72.040.705

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but how coold that haue bine for thy good in time to come |:
PASTONK,72.040.706

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
no , I beleue veryly it might haue bine to bothe our disparagments :
PASTONK,72.040.707

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now I hope to receue the to me furnished with grassces , as a bee
coms loden to her hiue : even with the best abroad :|
PASTONK,72.040.708

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope before this you haue receiued my letter by Iohnsons the
Cambridge Carrier with 5 li s . sent to good mr Roberts for a supply
till I send more to the comencment . PASTONK,72.040.709

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good child lett not a poor hungery siser want a reward from the .
PASTONK,72.040.710

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but lett the poorest and least be frinded , reape a kindness from the .
PASTONK,72.040.711

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lett such not want bread or beer , in a moderat maner .
PASTONK,72.040.712

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but be a healp to the healples in ther most need , PASTONK,72.040.713

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the lord will bless the if thow beest kinde to the poor and nedy
ons :| PASTONK,72.040.714

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
remember me very kindly to the worthy Master PASTONK,72.040.715

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and likewis commend me to good mr Roberts PASTONK,72.040.716

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will wright to him the nexte weeke , PASTONK,72.040.717

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the thanke him for his offten wrightinge . PASTONK,72.040.718

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he can not wright too offt so longe as thow arte so good a boy and be
so well gouerned . PASTONK,72.040.719

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in my next letter . I will begine to inquier your cominge hom .
PASTONK,72.040.720

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I and thow must leaue it to the Master his good pleasur what time
he shall thinke fitt : PASTONK,72.040.721

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but more of this heerafter :| PASTONK,72.040.722

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father tooke thy wrightinge to him in good parte :
PASTONK,72.040.723

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is very glad that thow arte a good chilld : PASTONK,72.040.724

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good child PASTONK,72.040.725

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and god for his mercy sake send the his grass with a longe healthy and
hapy life PASTONK,72.040.726

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so farwell : agayne and agayn PASTONK,72.040.727

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother euer Katherine Paston PASTONK,72.040.728

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_040:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
friday : 25. of Iune 1624 | PASTONK,72.040.729

<Q_PAK_A_1624?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_041>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_73>

{ED:43_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:June_1624?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloued sonne William Paston these at Cambridge spede
PASTONK,73.041.730

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good Will : the Lords blessinge be evermor upon the .
PASTONK,73.041.731

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have receiued two letters from the this weeke with a booke , all
which are most wellcom to me : PASTONK,73.041.732

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad to heer by good Mr. Roberts that thow hetherto haste demeaned
thyself well and as it is meet thow shouldest haue giuen good respect
to all ; PASTONK,73.041.733

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all good news of the , and from the , cheers me more then any thinge in
this world ; PASTONK,73.041.734

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I know thow dost loue to haue me cheerly . PASTONK,73.041.735

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
goe on still my good chilld in all well doinge PASTONK,73.041.736

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be then as mery as mery maye be : PASTONK,73.041.737

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr Parker I hope by this time haue delivered my letter and token to the
, PASTONK,73.041.738

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he was to be at Cambridge on munday or tusday last : PASTONK,73.041.739

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe like that thow doest inditt thy owne letters thy selfe .
PASTONK,73.041.740

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thow weart wont to know how to speake to me . PASTONK,73.041.741

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and euen so wold I haue the wright . PASTONK,73.041.742

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hetherto I doe like exedingly of them and of the well wrightinge of
them : PASTONK,73.041.743

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the use of wrightinge will perfict your hand very much :
PASTONK,73.041.744

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am so strayted of time as I can not tary longer to talk with the now
: PASTONK,73.041.745

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but bid the farwell . besechinge god to keepe the in all thy ways now
and euermore PASTONK,73.041.746

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,73.041.747

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
at the Commencement I will send a beaver hat to the PASTONK,73.041.748

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I feare it will be to bigge ore to littell or too broad verged or
sumthinge amis : | PASTONK,73.041.749

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if it shold not doe Comly send it me then agayn -
PASTONK,73.041.750

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I will send for an other for the . PASTONK,73.041.751

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$far $well {TEXT:farwell} and euermore well : PASTONK,73.041.752

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good will tell tom Hartstonge that I doe like well of his wrightinge .
PASTONK,73.041.753

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold haue written to him to put him in minde of sum things
PASTONK,73.041.754

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14?
LETTER:PASTONK_041:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue now no time : | PASTONK,73.041.755

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_042>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_73>

{ED:44_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:July_1624?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerly beloued sonne William Paston these at Corpus Christy
Colledge at his chamber ther Cambridge PASTONK,73.042.756

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : I pray our mercyfull god to blese and guide the , in all
thy ways words and works , to the glory of his own nam , thy sowlls
euerlastinge comfort and my Ioy : | PASTONK,73.042.757

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is true that I haue receiued 6. of thy letters and bothe thow and I
haue wronge if thow hast not receiued 4. of mine . <P_74> besids this ,
on by my Cosine Cook on by mr Parker . on by Iohnsons the Carier , on
by Cowell the Carier . this last munday or tusday : PASTONK,74.042.758

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thou hast had them all befor this : | PASTONK,74.042.759

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe send the a new sute of sattine to weare this comencment as allso
a payer of silke stokins poynts garters and shoe strings and a siluer
girdell , - sutable to weare with those things that are siluered
PASTONK,74.042.760

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good boy haue a great care to wear thy Clothes neat and Clean
PASTONK,74.042.761

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is a great Comendation to se a yonge man spincs and neat . without
spots and durtines upon his clothes : PASTONK,74.042.762

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must confes I haue not heard to the contrary , but that thow hast
bine a good and well gouerned chilld . PASTONK,74.042.763

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore thow shallt finde me requitfull of thy loue and care to
please ; | PASTONK,74.042.764

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I will soon procure thy content and send for the hom a littell
whill for a recreation fitt ; hopinge thow willt haue as longinge a
desire to se Cambridge again as thou hadst before , PASTONK,74.042.765

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for that is the plase that I trust shall doe the good more ways then on
. if thow continew still to be a good chilld as by the blesinge of my
god I trust thow willt : PASTONK,74.042.766

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not send my beuer Hate as I thought to haue don . which I wold ,
but that I looke to se the heer <paren> if god lett not </paren> with
in this 3. weekes wherfor make use of your best beauer ,
PASTONK,74.042.767

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and when thow comest home I will see if any of myn will fitt of which I
make sum doupt . | PASTONK,74.042.768

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my sweet will to thy owne selfe PASTONK,74.042.769

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Christ Iesus bless the ewer more : | PASTONK,74.042.770

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Commend my best respect to the most worthy master of your Colledge
PASTONK,74.042.771

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad of his kindnes to the with all my harte |
PASTONK,74.042.772

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
god bless the euer PASTONK,74.042.773

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
amen PASTONK,74.042.774

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:46
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:14
LETTER:PASTONK_042:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,74.042.775

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FS_WBRENDE> <L_PASTONK_043> <A_WILLIAM_BRENDE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_1558>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_74>

{ED:45_WILLIAM_BRENDE_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:5_August_1624}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
To the right worshippfull and most worthy Ladye the Lady Katherin
Paston deliuer theis Norwich PASTONK,74.043.776

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Madame Bacon one of the Constables of Paston was at your Ladiships vpon
tuesdaie last to giue notice that the subsedie for the inhabitantes of
Paston shold be paid at Pulles in Walsham this daye .
PASTONK,74.043.777

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sir Edmondes parte for the auoiding of further troble to the collector
or your Ladiship I haue paid & receyued A dischardge therof :
{ED:THE_WORDS_"Sir_Edmondes...thereof"_ARE_UNDERLINED_IN_THE_MS} which
I though requisite to signifie vnto you : PASTONK,74.043.778

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sir Edmund yester day was vp & merry . PASTONK,74.043.779

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mr William haue bought him A new sommer nagge PASTONK,74.043.780

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
is liuely & merry . PASTONK,74.043.781

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your hospitalitie doe intertayne good company . PASTONK,74.043.782

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
All your housholde is well PASTONK,74.043.783

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
& desire your spedie retorne & prosperus succes in all your affaiers
with health & hartes ease . PASTONK,74.043.784

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Ladiships more then I may William Brende PASTONK,74.043.785

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
August .5. 1624 PASTONK,74.043.786

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mr Call & my selfe being aboute to pay vi li for xxx li asseised doe
finde by the rolle Sir Edmond is asseised at xxxv li & vii li was
demanded . PASTONK,74.043.787

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mr Walters Mr Neue & Mr Rante did all affirme to the collector their
<P_75> assentes only to xxx li PASTONK,75.043.788

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
& Mr Iermy said it was innough & the commissioners to their thinckinges
did assente . PASTONK,75.043.789

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
They all say ther is no helpe if the rolle retorned in the Exchequer
doe agree with this rolle of the collector . PASTONK,75.043.790

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I thought good before I paid vii li to aduertise your Ladiship for your
conscent or take such order as in your wisdome $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
thought fitting : And with all to inquior yf any cvmmissioner , or all
together haue authoritie to asseise any after the publique assesment
but them selues or the assesors at least to finde out yf you can by
whose meanes this vnfrendly acte is performed . PASTONK,75.043.791

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Walsham PASTONK,75.043.792

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
5. Aug. 1624 PASTONK,75.043.793

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
som spedie order wold be taken for the payment PASTONK,75.043.794

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BRENDE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1558:66
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_043:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
we finde in Mr Rantes booke also the assesment was no more then them
xxx li asseised which was produced PASTONK,75.043.795

<Q_PAK_A_1624_FS_PALPE> <L_PASTONK_044> <A_PHILIP_ALPE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1578>

<P_75>

{ED:46_PHILIP_ALPE_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:23_August_1624}

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
To the Right Worshipfull the ladie Paston giue these PASTONK,75.044.796

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Maye it please your Ladiship I had present accesse vnto his lordship
who pryuatlye red your letter , PASTONK,75.044.797

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
then calling for Mr hobard and Mr Shepherd he openlye red the same
againe to them , PASTONK,75.044.798

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and coming to that part where your Ladiship wowld vndertake the
ffeoffees <paren> exept Mr Iermy </paren> would haue their monies
readie his Lordship made a pawse PASTONK,75.044.799

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<paren> yet comending your iudicious and discreet wrighting </paren> he
sayd that his Cosen there present would not goe to anye particuler man
, for part of the monie , but as he makes the bargaine with your
Ladiship he lookes that your Ladiship should prouide him the monie
fullye , PASTONK,75.044.800

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
then Mr Shepherd asked me , if that Master Iermy should fayle wowld not
the rest of the ffeoffees paye the whole somme to whom I answered it
maye be they will yet I had no power to make anye suche bargaine for
them , PASTONK,75.044.801

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
in conclusion his lordship appointed the euidence to be browght to Mr
Dennies on ffrydaye or $Saturdaye next and so at the meeting of the
ffeoffees the 22 of September to make vp the bargine .
PASTONK,75.044.802

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he and his Ladie doth commend them to your Ladiship and my Ladie Bell
PASTONK,75.044.803

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I haue spake with Mr Machet PASTONK,75.044.804

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and haue receiued 32 li s for the vi yeares farme for Blunston ,
PASTONK,75.044.805

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he sayth that the rest of his masters monie $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
readie against the time the ffeoffees meet . PASTONK,75.044.806

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
thus sending my lords letter by Edmund Iepson I humbly rest
PASTONK,75.044.807

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Norwiche PASTONK,75.044.808

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this 23 of August 1624 PASTONK,75.044.809

AUTHOR:PHILIP_ALPE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46
LETTER:PASTONK_044:E2:1624:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Ladiships obedient seruant Phillip Alpe PASTONK,75.044.810

<Q_PAK_A_1624?_T_WDENNY> <L_PASTONK_045> <A_WILLIAM_DENNY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1578>

<P_76>

{ED:47_WILLIAM_DENNY_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:December_1624?}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull my most respected & very good Lady the Lady
Katherine Paston at Paston deliuer PASTONK,76.045.811

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Noble Lady I have euen nowe received your bookes & sene your comission
& depositions returned PASTONK,76.045.812

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nothing more is asyet done . PASTONK,76.045.813

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have left order with mr Smyth - for circumspection -
PASTONK,76.045.814

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
& as occasion yow $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sure to heare onely Iustice
Chamberlayne is appointed to goe sitt at Chester as cheife Iustice
their & Sir Iames Whitlock that sittes their shall come in his place :
PASTONK,76.045.815

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Cheife Iustice $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} lord Tra'sourer Sir
Randall Crewe lord Cheife Iustice PASTONK,76.045.816

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Parliament is put off till the 2 of ffebruary PASTONK,76.045.817

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
here was a taalk of the plague but noe such thing onely a newe kinde of
ague . PASTONK,76.045.818

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thus with my best remembred to your self Sir Edmund mr William &c I am
yours euer most assured PASTONK,76.045.819

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This Instant tuisday 1624 PASTONK,76.045.820

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Graies London / PASTONK,76.045.821

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_DENNY:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:_:1578:46?
LETTER:PASTONK_045:E2:1624?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
William Denny PASTONK,76.045.822

<Q_PAK_A_1625_FN_W5PASTON> <L_PASTONK_046> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1610>
<R_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER>
<R-DOB_1578>

<P_76>

{ED:48_WILLIAM_PASTON_TO_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON}

{ED:22_February_1625}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my much Honored good mother the Right Worshipfull the Lady Paston
att Paston halle Northfolke PASTONK,76.046.823

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Most deare and honored mother , you must giue me leaue To Epitomise my
letter into A short Compendium for mr Dikes . PASTONK,76.046.824

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hast will not Suffer me To Doe Anie otherwise . PASTONK,76.046.825

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good mother my Tutor and I were att the courtt at newe markett
yesterday wher we saw the prince the Duke and mane other noble men ,
But not , the Kinge By Reson he was not well . PASTONK,76.046.826

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God's name Be praysed we are all verie well . PASTONK,76.046.827

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
onely Tom: Hartston contineweth after the olde sorte haueinge no vse of
his hande . PASTONK,76.046.828

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is still in the Towne . PASTONK,76.046.829

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
mr Dike is the Lord Lepingtons chaplen PASTONK,76.046.830

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Good mother I Remember my humles Dutie to my father your selfe my loue
to my Brother my Chozen Abigail mrs Wilson prayinge to god almitie to
protecte you now and euer PASTONK,76.046.831

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Reste PASTONK,76.046.832

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if ther be no oranges att Norwich if your Ladiship will sende in your
next letter we will sende some by Iohnson : PASTONK,76.046.833

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your filliallay obediente sonne William Paston PASTONK,76.046.834

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Cambridge PASTONK,76.046.835

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> Corpus Christi College </font> PASTONK,76.046.836

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
RECIPIENT:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
LETTER:PASTONK_046:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
xxii feb 1624-5 PASTONK,76.046.837

<Q_PAK_A_1625_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_047>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_77>

{ED:49_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Late_February_1625}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most beloued sonne William Paston these I pray ye at Corpus
Christ Colledge Cambridg PASTONK,77.047.838

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the lord blese the ever : | PASTONK,77.047.839

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was glad to heer by Phillup of thy good healthe and allso by mr
Roberts letter to vnderstand of thy wellfare every way : the hope of
the continuanc of which , dothe still cheer me every way : |
PASTONK,77.047.840

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father haue bine very ill with his owld truble in his Legge so that
he haue kepte his bede with it this 5: or 6: days , PASTONK,77.047.841

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now god be thanked it is on the mendinge hand PASTONK,77.047.842

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yett he can not indure to sitt vp : | PASTONK,77.047.843

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your brother and all good frindes heer are well , PASTONK,77.047.844

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thow doest keep good fiers . this cowld wether .
PASTONK,77.047.845

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is bothe comfortable and howlsum : PASTONK,77.047.846

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
heer haue bine much lose heerabout with these great windes and ill
wether ; PASTONK,77.047.847

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
diuers botts with wheat which was to be deliuered for the kinges
provision at Yarmouth are sunke in the riuer , which is the owners lose
and not the kings : | PASTONK,77.047.848

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was sory to heere of tom harstons beinge ill , PASTONK,77.047.849

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but hope well of his recouery : PASTONK,77.047.850

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did wright to the the last satterday when I had very littel time to
say any thinge for hast : PASTONK,77.047.851

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Commend me very kindly to good mr Roberts PASTONK,77.047.852

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not know whether he shall need a new supply : PASTONK,77.047.853

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yett before our Lady : I will sende so soon as the wether breake vp to
know how the squars goe PASTONK,77.047.854

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in the mean time I pray god blese the PASTONK,77.047.855

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet harte to thy owne selfe : | PASTONK,77.047.856

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Pason PASTONK,77.047.857

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Neec Knyvett hathe a yonge soone PASTONK,77.047.858

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_047:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is very well : | PASTONK,77.047.859

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_048>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_77>

{ED:50_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:1625_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge Corpus Cristy
Colledge Cambridge PASTONK,77.048.860

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My sweet will : grase mercy and all healthe be multiplied to thee ,
PASTONK,77.048.861

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe much desire to heer of the and thy good tutor ,
PASTONK,77.048.862

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue not receiued any letter scinc mun cam from the ;
PASTONK,77.048.863

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is a very sickly world for agues PASTONK,77.048.864

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did never know any time , wherin ther wear half so many ,
PASTONK,77.048.865

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we haue had many in our howse down of it , PASTONK,77.048.866

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thank god soon vp agayne , PASTONK,77.048.867

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now thy brother I thinke haue gott on , PASTONK,77.048.868

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he haue bine but ill this seuennight ; PASTONK,77.048.869

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father is exedingly well agayne as ever , PASTONK,77.048.870

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
blesed be my good god for itt PASTONK,77.048.871

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he was as dangerously ill as coold be ;/ PASTONK,77.048.872

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send on to norwich on purpos , hopinge this satterday to meet with
thy letters , which I praye may ever be mesengers of such good tidinges
to me , as hetherto thay haue bine , <P_78> which is of thy wellfare
every way ; PASTONK,78.048.873

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thow must still take a mighty good Care of thy diet and recreations
shun acsces in ayther ; and be sure that pasty crust and cheese doe not
make the wisse :/ PASTONK,78.048.874

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I desire likewis to heer that Mr Roberts haue lost his ague fitts ,
PASTONK,78.048.875

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the do not forget to send me word of it in thy next ; all-so how
poor tom harstonge dothe with his arme , whether he can stur it or is
like to haue any vse of it , PASTONK,78.048.876

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god send me good tidinges of you all ; PASTONK,78.048.877

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the Commend me very kindly to the most worthy docter ; and to
good mr Roberts : and thy owne self , though last of all yett not least
of all , to me ; espetially heeringe of thy well doinge , which dothe
so much comfort me , as I will not hide from the , the content I take
in it : the which I am parswaded , will rayther incouredge the to goe
on in vertuous courses , then be any Cawse to procure neglect to the ;
PASTONK,78.048.878

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for good minds are allways drawn on by good means , PASTONK,78.048.879

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my deer will : PASTONK,78.048.880

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for this time the blesinge of god the father sonne and holy sperit be
ever more upon the , and us all :/ PASTONK,78.048.881

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_048:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,78.048.882

<Q_PAK_A_1625_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_049>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_78>

{ED:51_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deerly beloued sonne William Paston at Corpus Christy
Colledge Cambridge PASTONK,78.049.883

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good Will :/ the mercy of the Lord be evermore with the
PASTONK,78.049.884

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and blese preserve and keep the ; PASTONK,78.049.885

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am exedingly glad to heer of the continueanc of thy good healthe ,
hopinge so longe as thow beest every way moderate in thy recreations
and carfull and temperate in thy diett </paren> it will still increase
, PASTONK,78.049.886

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thow dost not eate of those possetty curdy drinkes which
howsoever pleasinge to the pallett it $may $be {TEXT:maybe} for a time
, yett I am parswaded are most vnhollsom and very Clogginge to the
stomake and apte to brede surfitts by reson thay doe not redyly disgest
but many times doe corrupt in the stomake PASTONK,78.049.887

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if need be to haue such thinges , you know how clear thay wear made
at hom for the PASTONK,78.049.888

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so lett them be still / PASTONK,78.049.889

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent the as thow desirest , some edeble Comodity for this Lent .
to eate in your chamber your good tutor and you together : a Cake and
Cheese a fewe pudinges and linkes : a turkey pie pasty : a pot of
Quinces and sume marmelate wishinge all maye Come saffe hom to the ,
PASTONK,78.049.890

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Asure thy self thow shallt not want any good that I cane doe for
the but to my vtermost will seeke to procure thy best welfare ,
eseptially seinge thow doste bende thy minde to doe all thos thinges
which may be pleasinge to those which haue the charge and oversight of
the , PASTONK,78.049.891

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remember my best respecte to the most worthy Doctor PASTONK,78.049.892

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thanke hime I pray the for his kinde wrightinge to me :
PASTONK,78.049.893

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and good Child haue a great Care still to keep his directions .
PASTONK,78.049.894

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I se by his letter to me , thay be admirable good ons for the :
PASTONK,78.049.895

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send your quarters , rent s due at our Lady next your tamell gowne
and damask sute , for that I know not what warme wether it maye be at
easter . PASTONK,78.049.896

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but be <P_79> as sparinge of the wearinge of it as maye be ;/
PASTONK,79.049.897

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very sory for poor tome Harston , PASTONK,79.049.898

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wish hee wear heer with me at home PASTONK,79.049.899

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for sure it is very chargeable PASTONK,79.049.900

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and besids I doupte he can not haue every thinge fittinge so well as
heer he might :/ PASTONK,79.049.901

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet harte PASTONK,79.049.902

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the haue a great care to serve god first and last every day
: PASTONK,79.049.903

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forgett not to be thankefull to him for thy good healthe and all
other his infinit mercys to the shewed ; PASTONK,79.049.904

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the Lord dothe acscept of a thankefull harte , PASTONK,79.049.905

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
when kinge David inqired what shold he paye the Lord for all the
benifits which he had bestowed , allthowgh he ought and inioyed a
kingedom , yett coold he not bethinke him of any better present , then
thankefullnes , and to take vp the cupe of saluation and Call vpon the
name of the Lord :/ PASTONK,79.049.906

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I pray vnfaynedly thow mayest doe ; PASTONK,79.049.907

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet will againe and agayne :/ PASTONK,79.049.908

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most louige mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,79.049.909

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send inclosed the key of the truncke PASTONK,79.049.910

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
send the trunke back with all the linnin PASTONK,79.049.911

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you haue any Ruffe bands to littell or to bigge send me them in
it :/ PASTONK,79.049.912

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Good will : mistress Smithe haue sent the , the vpermost Cake
PASTONK,79.049.913

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Commends her to the : PASTONK,79.049.914

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
likewis honest goodman payne haue sent the on of the Cheses in the
bottom of the trunck , PASTONK,79.049.915

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wish thow woldest send thy Cosines mun and Robert Bell heyther , half
my great Cake : or Mistress Smithes which thow willt ; and a few links
and pudinges half a dosine of each , PASTONK,79.049.916

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Comend me to them bothe very kindly , PASTONK,79.049.917

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lett mun cary them too them : PASTONK,79.049.918

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the bagge with the mony I woold haue you to deliuer to mr Roberts
PASTONK,79.049.919

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
therin is your s and s for poor tom hartston and s for younge Collby
his quartre / PASTONK,79.049.920

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wish thow mayst Like well of these Comodyties : PASTONK,79.049.921

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
every one heer salute the PASTONK,79.049.922

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wish the all helthe , PASTONK,79.049.923

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
many of thy fathers seruants wold gladly haue bine the mesenger at this
time to haue seen the : PASTONK,79.049.924

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_049:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell agayne and agayne my good chilld . PASTONK,79.049.925

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_050>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_79>

{ED:52_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:1625_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deerly beloued sonne William Paston at Corpus Cristy
Colledge Cambridg PASTONK,79.050.926

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : the blesinge of god Allmighty be ever more with the ;/
PASTONK,79.050.927

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad that all those things which I sent cam safe to the but
much more glad of the Continuanc of thy good healthe , but most glad of
all , to heer of thy Constant purpos to persever in thy well doinge ;
besechinge the Allmyghty to giue the his assistinge grase that thow
mayest pareforme it , to his glory : and thy everlastinge good ;
PASTONK,79.050.928

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for me , no Newes Can Com so acsceptable as dothe the glad
tidinges of thy wellfare every way :/ PASTONK,79.050.929

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very sory to heer by Ioseph Page that mr Roberts had so ill a fitt
on tusday last , PASTONK,79.050.930

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fear he haue wrestlede to longe with it before he was a known of it :
PASTONK,79.050.931

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if we had had him heer when it first did begine with <P_80> him , I
beleue he had bine red of it much sooner : PASTONK,80.050.932

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
with the sake sopes : a pint of sake , and a manchett not to new ,
crumed into it , PASTONK,80.050.933

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and eat it out with a spoon as he woold eat a mess of potage :
PASTONK,80.050.934

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it will make him sweat and sleape exelently : PASTONK,80.050.935

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
surly for a very Cowld shakinge ague to take it in the begininge of the
fitt and lie dowen and be close covered and in the sweatinge to be
dried with very warme napkins , and kepe out of the Ayer 2 or 3 days
</paren> PASTONK,80.050.936

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue fownd it the rediest help we haue , PASTONK,80.050.937

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
diuers in our howse haue bine holpen of it with twis takinge it : and
the second fitt nothinge to speake of ./ PASTONK,80.050.938

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to him very kindly </paren> PASTONK,80.050.939

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father thanks be to god is very well PASTONK,80.050.940

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and comends him to the PASTONK,80.050.941

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so do thy brother ,/ with thankes to the for his gold Grams
PASTONK,80.050.942

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you made him a Ioyfull man with it , PASTONK,80.050.943

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he will wright when more Newes Com to towne :/ PASTONK,80.050.944

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
goody Gowld is dead , and buried on Sunday last :/ PASTONK,80.050.945

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the widdow Paston our Cosine is latly maried of on sir Henry Compton ,
younger brother to him that maried the duke so {COM:FOR_of?}
buckinghams mother :/ PASTONK,80.050.946

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if thow hast heard this before , then ther is some Roppers Newes
for the : PASTONK,80.050.947

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good child for this time PASTONK,80.050.948

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_050:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother in hast : Katherine Paston PASTONK,80.050.949

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_051>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_80>

{ED:53_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:1_April_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge Cambridge
PASTONK,80.051.950

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good Child the lord of infinite mercy blese the for ever more ,
PASTONK,80.051.951

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I humble thank him for thy good healthe which he haue giuen to the
in this sikely seson which is an extrodinary mercy to the and me shewed
, PASTONK,80.051.952

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
blesed be his {COM:his_repeated} holy name therfor . PASTONK,80.051.953

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the doe not fayll to render most humble thanks vnto his
maieste on thy bowed knees from the grownd of thy harte : in thy Closit
privatly by thy own self . when non may heer or see the , but hee alone
who searchethe the harte and the raynes : PASTONK,80.051.954

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I have no doupt but he will be pleased to continew his good
favor vnto the , even to thy end and at thy end : PASTONK,80.051.955

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I reioyce at the many testimonys of the thy Giuell and good demenur ;
which thy good tutor afforedethe the , PASTONK,80.051.956

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the still haue a Care , still to give him all satisfaction ,
PASTONK,80.051.957

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I know he studieth thy welfare every way . PASTONK,80.051.958

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and allthough learninge come not easily to every one . yett to those
which , haue a loue to it , it is of all things most delightfull beinge
onc gayned , PASTONK,80.051.959

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
studie now therfore , a fewe yeers . PASTONK,80.051.960

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue no doupt , but through the good blesinge of god and thy good
indevor but thou shallt easely atayne to it :/ PASTONK,80.051.961

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy good father remembers his loue to the , PASTONK,80.051.962

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is very ill agayne with the truble in his legge , but otherwis I
thanke my god well : PASTONK,80.051.963

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy prety brother haue bine this 3. weeks petifully terified with an
ague , PASTONK,80.051.964

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I trust his fitts doe now , I hope , begine to shorten ,
PASTONK,80.051.965

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he haue bine a most patient enduror of a great dell of truble ;
PASTONK,80.051.966

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I $haue good hope he shall be very well agayne :/
PASTONK,80.051.967

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tom Harston is com hom agayne , PASTONK,80.051.968

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am very glad to se that he haue <P_81> so much strength in his
arme , PASTONK,81.051.969

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I did fear he had bine starke lame of it PASTONK,81.051.970

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue now good hop of it ; PASTONK,81.051.971

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
on munday mr Crope I thinke , will take it in hand , first by Phisike
and after by applienge strengthy things to it :/ PASTONK,81.051.972

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I like it not amis , that you haue stayed his younger brother , if he
will doe PASTONK,81.051.973

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but suply his brothers plase till hee com backe agayne : which $shall
$be {TEXT:shallbe} as soon as cane be conveniently :/
PASTONK,81.051.974

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lett your lineen be very well ayred before it come on your backe or on
your bed , PASTONK,81.051.975

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is very howlsom : PASTONK,81.051.976

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad of thy offten wrightinge to me PASTONK,81.051.977

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am sory of any ocation to hinder my not wrightinge to the agayne
; PASTONK,81.051.978

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had sent Huggin the last weeke to the , with my letters but that I se
Tom hartstons frindes had great desire to haue him hom :
PASTONK,81.051.979

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I had no warninge of ther purposed day of sending not a quarter of
an hower : PASTONK,81.051.980

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I defered wrighting till I did se him :/ PASTONK,81.051.981

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sweet will : the Lord Blese the still , PASTONK,81.051.982

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thou arte to me a great comfort , so longe as thow doest so well
and beest so well , PASTONK,81.051.983

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy $Constant purposes to contine in the good Coorses comforthe my
harte and sowle : PASTONK,81.051.984

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for what is ther in this liffe which can Ioy me so much as thy
perseveranc in all good Coorses PASTONK,81.051.985

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet harte for this time in great hast as may be ,
PASTONK,81.051.986

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,81.051.987

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send 2 boxes of marmelate on to mr Roberts on to the by father
Iohnsons : PASTONK,81.051.988

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_051:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he haue no letter , for that Philup will be with you first :/
PASTONK,81.051.989

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_052>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_81>

{ED:54_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:15_April_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge in Corpus
Christie College at Cambridge PASTONK,81.052.990

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the lords mercy and blesinge be evermore vpon the :
PASTONK,81.052.991

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wil wright these two ore three lines to lett the knowe that I did
receiue thy kinde letter by Iohn borows and allso </paren> that I
thinke not to wright any more to the till I see the , which $will $be
{TEXT:willbe} in the latter ende of the weeke . affter easter weeke if
god lett me not : till when and for ever I pray as I begane that the
blesinge of god Allmighty the father the sonne and most blesed spiritt
preserve the body and sowll from all evell : PASTONK,81.052.992

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the most worthy good doctor
PASTONK,81.052.993

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke him for wrightinge to me : PASTONK,81.052.994

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
comend me likewis to thy good tutor PASTONK,81.052.995

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so in hast I bide the farwell good will ;/ PASTONK,81.052.996

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,81.052.997

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_052:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good Friday :/ PASTONK,81.052.998

<Q_PAK_A_1625_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_053>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_82>

{ED:55_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:18_April_1625}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at Cambridge
PASTONK,82.053.999

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Good will :/ the Lord Iesus evermore blese preserve and keep the ,
in all thy thoughts words works and ways , that thow mayst haue the
feare of him before the eyes of thy soull , that whatsoever thow goest
abowte a thowght of him may be ever in thy harte , PASTONK,82.053.1000

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
then will he lead the in the pathes of true knowledge ;
PASTONK,82.053.1001

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thow shalt be sure of it :/ PASTONK,82.053.1002

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Truly ther is nothinge in this liffe , which dothe afforde vnto me that
Comforte and Content , as to heer of thy good and welfare every way :
PASTONK,82.053.1003

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nayther Coold ther {TEXT:be} , to my thinkinge </paren> any thinge
befall me in this world which wold be so grevous to me , as that thinge
which shold ill be falle the : eyther-5 , by outward or inwarde defects
of body or minde . PASTONK,82.053.1004

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my trust is , that God which hathe Created Redeemed and hetherto in
good healthe hathe preservede the , will of his infinte mercy directe
the Continually Guide the in his holy fear , which he grant for his
mercy sake ;/ PASTONK,82.053.1005

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I se by thy last letter thow dost desire much to se me ,
PASTONK,82.053.1006

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the truthe is , I can not yett sett dowe the Certin day when it
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} nor $can $not {TEXT:Cannot} till munday affter
easter munday be past , PASTONK,82.053.1007

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for then will $there $be {TEXT:therbe} a metinge of all good frinds ,
so I hop to be at sum Certinty PASTONK,82.053.1008

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then if I haue a fitt mesinger I will send the word :/
PASTONK,82.053.1009

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tom Hartston is glad to be the mesinger of this my letter ,
PASTONK,82.053.1010

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am very glad he is so well recovered as he is PASTONK,82.053.1011

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope in god the worst is past with his Arme : PASTONK,82.053.1012

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thow hast so bowntifully furnished me with guillt paper as I shall not
wante to wright to the many a day :/ PASTONK,82.053.1013

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No Newes heer but of our New knights of the Sheer : which are Chosen
this Easter Munday : PASTONK,82.053.1014

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you shall know when I know who thay be :/ PASTONK,82.053.1015

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now we heer ther was much a doe at Last sir Edward Cooke , and sir
Anthony Drury haue Caried it : from sir Robert Gawdy and sir Charls
Grose . PASTONK,82.053.1016

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thay had the Poll : PASTONK,82.053.1017

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he that had least had . PASTONK,82.053.1018

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he that had most had : PASTONK,82.053.1019

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sum say sir Iohn Corbet stood for it . PASTONK,82.053.1020

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he had 4 skor 18 : and no more , PASTONK,82.053.1021

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he had bine as good haue had no body : PASTONK,82.053.1022

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell for this time my good child PASTONK,82.053.1023

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord blese the now and ever . PASTONK,82.053.1024

{ED:18_April_1625}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_053:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,82.053.1025

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_054>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_82>

{ED:56_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Late_April_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my derest sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge Corpus Cristy
Colledge Cambridg PASTONK,82.054.1026

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : the lord Iesus be thy protecttor now and ever :
PASTONK,82.054.1027

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not know whether this my letter shall com to the , whillst that
thow arte at cambridge , or whether thow arte cominge homward ,
PASTONK,82.054.1028

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god thow <P_83> mayst doe for the best , PASTONK,83.054.1029

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if thow mightiest haue thy health ther as it hathe pleased the Lord
, hetherto to send it the , then wold I not haue the hom till Iuly
monthe , PASTONK,83.054.1030

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I leaue it to good mr Roberts , his discretion , to doe what he
shall se most fitt to be done PASTONK,83.054.1031

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue bought the a cooler sute to wear , as allso cloct bands
PASTONK,83.054.1032

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but will not send them till I heer whether thow comest or no :/
PASTONK,83.054.1033

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the most worthy docter : PASTONK,83.054.1034

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the giue him great thanks for his love and favor shewed to
the , PASTONK,83.054.1035

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I say giue him thanks from me for it :/ PASTONK,83.054.1036

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and likewis commend me very kindly to good mr Roberts :
PASTONK,83.054.1037

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will wright to him next if I doe not speake with him soon :
PASTONK,83.054.1038

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so for this time farwell my sweet will : PASTONK,83.054.1039

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to thy deer selfe very late thys friday night :/ in great hast : thy
most louing Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,83.054.1040

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr Cawll desires that if Mr Roberts and you remove his sonne dick
C'awll : might com hom with ye :/ PASTONK,83.054.1041

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_054:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
never wors pen never wors paper nor wors writer :/ PASTONK,83.054.1042

<Q_PAK_A_1625_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_055>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_83>

{ED:57_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:6_May_1625}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at Corpus Cristi Colledge
Caambridge PASTONK,83.055.1043

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : Christ Iesus blese the euer , for his mercy sake ;:
PASTONK,83.055.1044

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did receiue thy louinge letter , PASTONK,83.055.1045

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was very glad to heer that the wether ther was so temperat ,
PASTONK,83.055.1046

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I did fear it wold haue bine other-wis : PASTONK,83.055.1047

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I blese my good God for the good healthe which he hathe sente to the ,
which , I beseech him to continew the in to his good pleasur :/
PASTONK,83.055.1048

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so longe as thow hast thy healthe , I howld the better ther a
thowsand times then at home , vntill thy mind be furnished with those
liberall siences , which that Nurcery affordethe to the studious and
best minds . PASTONK,83.055.1049

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now is the time . wherfore bend thy selfe to gayne the best knowledge :
PASTONK,83.055.1050

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and indevor to shvne the least evell so neer as $may $be {TEXT:maybe} :
PASTONK,83.055.1051

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if a man be indowed with many good giffts , and haue a minde to
harbore but on beloued vice , it is like Coliquinteda : spoylinge a
wholl Pott of Pottage . PASTONK,83.055.1052

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thow dost ruminat over all thy Psalms and Chapters and textes of
scripture , which longe sinc thou didest learne by harte .
PASTONK,83.055.1053

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold be sory thow sholdest forget thy Conduit of Comfort :
PASTONK,83.055.1054

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
these things lett not slipe out of thy mind , PASTONK,83.055.1055

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thay will be to the in time to com , bothe Comforters and
Cownselers : PASTONK,83.055.1056

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the God of infinite mercy so blese and scanctify thy harte and sowll ,
that thou mayst liue to the honor of his nam , and to the comfort of
thy self and all frindes who wisheth the well ;- PASTONK,83.055.1057

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke god thy father is exedinge well , PASTONK,83.055.1058

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy brother haue lost his ague this seuenight and more ,
PASTONK,83.055.1059

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I dare not remoue him out of his chamber , PASTONK,83.055.1060

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is very cheerly but very Pall : PASTONK,83.055.1061

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he remembers his best loue to the . PASTONK,83.055.1062

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and doe offeten speake of the : PASTONK,83.055.1063

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send the sume Clockt bands , the very best watsons shop will afford ,
PASTONK,83.055.1064

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thinke thay will make the looke but neekedly :
PASTONK,83.055.1065

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the next <P_84> weeke by the carier , I hop to send the a stuff sute ,
PASTONK,84.055.1066

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
send me word how thow doest for clothes : PASTONK,84.055.1067

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seinge I goe not to London this summer thow mayst wear thy damaske
sute PASTONK,84.055.1068

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wold not haue it growe to littell for the :/ PASTONK,84.055.1069

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but wear if fayerly : PASTONK,84.055.1070

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you now your Crimson sattin sute : to wear in whot wether :/ and
a littell comodity I bought at Iohn of all sorts :/ giuen the many
thanks for my fine payer of wrightinge tables thow sentest me :
PASTONK,84.055.1071

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet harte PASTONK,84.055.1072

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the blesinge of my heauenly father be ever more vpon the :
PASTONK,84.055.1073

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
May the 6: day 1625 PASTONK,84.055.1074

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,84.055.1075

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15
LETTER:PASTONK_055:E2:1625:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr Rant of Norwalsum died this morning of a burninge ague as mr Thomson
tells vs :/:/ PASTONK,84.055.1076

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_056>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_84>

{ED:58_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Late_August_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at his Lodging at Corpus
Cristi College Cambridge PASTONK,84.056.1077

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : I was in hope to haue seen thee this weeke ,
PASTONK,84.056.1078

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I heer so bade newes of the increase of the sikenes at London ,
that allthough I haue great ocation to haue bine ther , yett will I
forbear till it shall please god in mearcy to scease it :
PASTONK,84.056.1079

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sory to think off removinge the from that good plase whear thow
arte so well : PASTONK,84.056.1080

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nyther wold I for any Cawse haue the hom till whot wether or fear of
danger provokethe me :/ wherfor I haue leaft it to mr Roberts best
conscideration : PASTONK,84.056.1081

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am so lothe thow sholdest loose thy time with being at hom ,
PASTONK,84.056.1082

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am lothe likewise to haue you to be ill at ease ther wherfor if
thow sholdest com home soone . I pray the resolue with thy selfe to
apply thy self strictly to Certine howers taskes every day ,
PASTONK,84.056.1083

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
otherwis I am afrayd thow sholdest be wonderfully hindered in thy
leavinge :/ PASTONK,84.056.1084

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if ther be Iust Cawse of feare of taringe , and that you will
purpos to settle thy self to parforme my desire , then Com
PASTONK,84.056.1085

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and well com PASTONK,84.056.1086

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you hier hacknys com very easy Iorneys : PASTONK,84.056.1087

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if you wold be sent for then lett me know in thy next :/
PASTONK,84.056.1088

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good child PASTONK,84.056.1089

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the allmighty , of his infinite mercy blese preserue and kepe the and
vs all for his mercy sake : PASTONK,84.056.1090

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_056:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most lovinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,84.056.1091

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_057>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_85>

{ED:59_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:December_1625_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston at Ketringham PASTONK,85.057.1092

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord Ihesus Christ blese the ever more .
PASTONK,85.057.1093

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must needs put the in minde to be very Carfull of thy selfe this
arshe cowld and blacke wether PASTONK,85.057.1094

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
take heed thy new sute be made warme enough least cowld be taken vpon
shiftinge of clothes . PASTONK,85.057.1095

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as great care is to be taken for thy body : so much more for that
pretious sowle . every foot a good motion a good thought in thy harte :
in what company so ever thow beest in : PASTONK,85.057.1096

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thow shalt not be a whitt the les mery but a great deall the more :/
PASTONK,85.057.1097

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I looke on wedensday com sennight to se the if it please god :/
PASTONK,85.057.1098

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
mr Cawll goethe away this friday with goodman payne :
PASTONK,85.057.1099

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but mr Smithe tary this night hopinge Iohn Coddon haue sente for
mistress Smithe :/ which if he haue not done lett him bear it ofe with
head and showlders as he can : PASTONK,85.057.1100

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Comend me to all good frinds with you wher so ever thow beeste :
PASTONK,85.057.1101

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so farewell : my good child : in great hast this ffriday morning
PASTONK,85.057.1102

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_057:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louing mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,85.057.1103

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_058>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_85>

{ED:60_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:December_1625?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne william Paston these at Ketringham or ells whear
PASTONK,85.058.1104

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good child . I pray god be thy giude in all things :/
PASTONK,85.058.1105

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the time now aprochethe that I shold expect thy promis of cominge hom :
PASTONK,85.058.1106

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I hope nothinge but the acte of god shall keep the from me .
PASTONK,85.058.1107

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in that case promises are to be dispensed with all :
PASTONK,85.058.1108

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if deepe snows or glasinge Icie ways be : then if frostinge of
horses will not searue . I aduis the to tary god his laysuer and
pleasur :/ PASTONK,85.058.1109

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if you may ventur now : then I haue appoynted Cooson to attend the
heather PASTONK,85.058.1110

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the haue a great care of ridinge too fast : PASTONK,85.058.1111

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in that is apparant danger ; PASTONK,85.058.1112

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall be very glad to se the heer saffly ariued ./
PASTONK,85.058.1113

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
honest mr Munday was heer and even with in two days of thy tutor which
for lodinge sake I was glad thay did not meet heer together :/
PASTONK,85.058.1114

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
mr Smithe and his wife are gone home PASTONK,85.058.1115

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god be ther saffgard :/ and restore healthe to the poor towne of
paston :/ PASTONK,85.058.1116

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the commend me to Sir Iohn Heueningham and all the rest of our
well wishinge frinds :/ whether so ever thow goest .
PASTONK,85.058.1117

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I beseech god to blese . the body and sowll : in this and in the
wold too come :/ PASTONK,85.058.1118

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to honest Robert bell : PASTONK,85.058.1119

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thow willt bringe him agayne to the :/ PASTONK,85.058.1120

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so farwell late to night :/ PASTONK,85.058.1121

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_058:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$by thy most louinge $Mother Ka Paston PASTONK,85.058.1122

<Q_PAK_A_1625?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_059>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_86>

{ED:61_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:December_1625_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloved Sonn William Paston these at Ketringham speed
PASTONK,86.059.1123

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Good will the Lord blese the for ever : PASTONK,86.059.1124

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I heer that Sir Iohn Heveningham is goinge to sir Iohn Wayntworths upon
vrgent busines PASTONK,86.059.1125

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the doe not thow goe thether for many Cawses .
PASTONK,86.059.1126

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but com hom to me the next fayer day PASTONK,86.059.1127

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send tom Hartston hopinge with in a day ore two it will be fayer
wether PASTONK,86.059.1128

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wrap vp your selfe as warme as may be : PASTONK,86.059.1129

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shal veryly expect the next fayer day . PASTONK,86.059.1130

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to thy Cosine Hevenigham very kindly and allso
to all thy Cosins :/ PASTONK,86.059.1131

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tom Hartston will tell the of the fayer shipe which is rune on grownd
with in mr Iohn smithes Liberty . sayd to be as great as the dans ship
which cam vp longe sinc PASTONK,86.059.1132

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther is not on liuinge thinge in her of man or beast .
PASTONK,86.059.1133

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sum thinke it is a riffled ship of the kinge of denmarks becawse it
haue a witt Lion badge as the other danish ship had .
PASTONK,86.059.1134

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sum thinke she is a dunkerk PASTONK,86.059.1135

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but god know what she is :/ PASTONK,86.059.1136

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Com PASTONK,86.059.1137

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and se : I pray the PASTONK,86.059.1138

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thus the Lord bles preserue and keep the body and sowll :/
PASTONK,86.059.1139

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:47?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:15?
LETTER:PASTONK_059:E2:1625?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Kathrine Paston PASTONK,86.059.1140

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_060>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_86>

{ED:62_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:February_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord blese the ever PASTONK,86.060.1141

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad that thow camest so saff to thy Iornies end wher I pray
god to sende the all healthe bothe-2 for sowll and body ,
PASTONK,86.060.1142

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther can be no plase which may afforde better means for bothe then that
is : - espetially haueinge such carfull governors over the :
PASTONK,86.060.1143

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and surly I will never thinke but you will be kindly tractable to ther
aduis in all things which maye concerne thy cheefest good ,
PASTONK,86.060.1144

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in so doinge : thow canst not devis , to give me greater content :
PASTONK,86.060.1145

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I will , by god his good blesinge requit it to the :
PASTONK,86.060.1146

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the forgett not those grownds of the Sacrament which thow hast ,
PASTONK,86.060.1147

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but gett them very perfitt that thow mayest be a worthy receiuer at the
Lords table : this next Ester : PASTONK,86.060.1148

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lett it , be thy cheeffest studie :/ PASTONK,86.060.1149

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most worthy vnkell Holland is departed this liffe
PASTONK,86.060.1150

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is gone to liue amonst the most blesed , I am fully Assured :
PASTONK,86.060.1151

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue lost a great frinde of him : PASTONK,86.060.1152

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord restore to vs this great Lose : if it be his holy will :
PASTONK,86.060.1153

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we are every day , by on ore other put in minde of our owne fraylty :
PASTONK,86.060.1154

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by the deathe of others we may read our own destyny :
PASTONK,86.060.1155

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
& , the brittell mettell wherof we be made glase is not more :/
PASTONK,86.060.1156

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseech the Lorde we may be very mindfull of our departinge that so
we may <P_87> liue we may not be a frayd to depart this liffe :/
PASTONK,87.060.1157

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father remembers his best loue to the PASTONK,87.060.1158

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he did take thy token very kindly , PASTONK,87.060.1159

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy brother remembers his best loue allso . PASTONK,87.060.1160

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to his good brother ther is no meal sinc you went but he drinke to the
: PASTONK,87.060.1161

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke the for my token too :/ PASTONK,87.060.1162

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will not be vnmindfull of thy loue : PASTONK,87.060.1163

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell sweet harte PASTONK,87.060.1164

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord blese preserue and keep the for ever more :
PASTONK,87.060.1165

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,87.060.1166

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good will : haue a great care of your selfe PASTONK,87.060.1167

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it dothe mightyly concerne you and me : PASTONK,87.060.1168

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
be not to violent of tennisinge . PASTONK,87.060.1169

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you be whote . bewar you cooll not to sudinly .
PASTONK,87.060.1170

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
drinke no wine this yeer or a very littell . PASTONK,87.060.1171

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is most dangerous and the more for that thay be sweet and new :/
PASTONK,87.060.1172

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_060:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in many it heats ther bloud to the deathe of them
PASTONK,87.060.1173

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_061>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_87>

{ED:63_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:February_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most beloued sonne William Paston at Corpus Christii Colledge
Cambridg PASTONK,87.061.1174

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld I coold haue hardly written to the at this time , but I
am lothe to desceiue thy expectation PASTONK,87.061.1175

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I doe imagine thow desirest to heer forme me , PASTONK,87.061.1176

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am exedingly glade to heer of thy good health ,
PASTONK,87.061.1177

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god to continew it to the , PASTONK,87.061.1178

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy cosine Gawdy is a widow . PASTONK,87.061.1179

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hee departed this liff of Sunday last - PASTONK,87.061.1180

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he died of a consumtion : PASTONK,87.061.1181

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
his mother towld me onc that he gott that surfitt with tvoo violent
playing at tenis . PASTONK,87.061.1182

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thinke I towld the of it onc before , desiring that thow sholdest
beware of the too great and continall exercise of it :
PASTONK,87.061.1183

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sum doe vse to heat them selues very much with it PASTONK,87.061.1184

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then drinke burnt sake or such like : PASTONK,87.061.1185

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for the : I can not be parswaded , but it shold be very hurtfull
and dangerous so to do wherfor if thow louest my liffe lett me intreat
the to be very Carfull of thy self for over heatinge thy blud :
PASTONK,87.061.1186

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so for this tim farwell good Will , PASTONK,87.061.1187

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord preserue the body and sowll . PASTONK,87.061.1188

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I Commend me to good Mr Roberts , very kindly : and to those two
gentellmen which , cam to vissitt the heer : PASTONK,87.061.1189

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell farwell PASTONK,87.061.1190

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Friday night Late PASTONK,87.061.1191

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,87.061.1192

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_061:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
remember me all so to the most worthy docter :/ PASTONK,87.061.1193

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_062>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_88>

{ED:64_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:2_March_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston at Corpus Christie Colledge at his
lodginge ther these Cambridge PASTONK,88.062.1194

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld , the mercy of the Lorde be ever more vpon the ,
PASTONK,88.062.1195

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I do imagine that thow didest earnestly expect a letter from me the
last weeke , PASTONK,88.062.1196

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I had pen in hand to begine to the , PASTONK,88.062.1197

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thy brothers illnes prevented me at that time , PASTONK,88.062.1198

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made me vnfitt for any thinge that was good : PASTONK,88.062.1199

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is now and haue bine sinc very well Blesed be the Lord .
PASTONK,88.062.1200

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god send him helpe of that most vncomfortable truble ./
PASTONK,88.062.1201

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I humbley beseech the Lord to sende you bothe of you </paren> his grase
and mercy to healthe and liff to his good will and plesure and the
comforts of many ;/ PASTONK,88.062.1202

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad to heer by Mr Roberts , that thow doest continue in thy
well doinge PASTONK,88.062.1203

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I parsayue hee receiues a great deall of content by it .
PASTONK,88.062.1204

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
goe on my good harte ; with thie purpos to persever in thy good Coorse
, PASTONK,88.062.1205

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it shall redownde to thy owne best good bothe-1 in this , and the liff
to com : PASTONK,88.062.1206

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue Cawsed tom ayde to make the a new sute , PASTONK,88.062.1207

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I feare it is very cowld as yett . PASTONK,88.062.1208

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the weare thy scarlett sute with out spotts as much as may be :
PASTONK,88.062.1209

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will send you the other er it be longe : PASTONK,88.062.1210

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my sweet will : for this time . PASTONK,88.062.1211

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the most worthy Doctor . and good Mr Roberts
PASTONK,88.062.1212

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I comend my love to the , and the to the gratious protection of the
Allmighty : PASTONK,88.062.1213

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in hast I rest PASTONK,88.062.1214

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father and many good frinds heer remember themselves to the :
PASTONK,88.062.1215

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this 2 of March :/ PASTONK,88.062.1216

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_062:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,88.062.1217

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_063>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_88>

{ED:65_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these I pray at Corpus Christy
Colledge at his chamber these Cambridge PASTONK,88.063.1218

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld Christ Iesu blese the ever . PASTONK,88.063.1219

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I coold not omitt this fittinge opertunyty , PASTONK,88.063.1220

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but will repayer my last weekes omision with my duble wrightinge to the
PASTONK,88.063.1221

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am promised that this my letter shall com to the by saterday
night . PASTONK,88.063.1222

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then shallt thow haue two of min in on weeke which will make a peec
of amends to the :/ PASTONK,88.063.1223

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall be most glad to heer of the continuanc of thy good healthe by
thy next . PASTONK,88.063.1224

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe purpos to send on purpos , this next weeke to se the
PASTONK,88.063.1225

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will send the sum shirts and such other things as I thinke thow
shallt need : PASTONK,88.063.1226

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
till then farwell my sweet <P_89> will . PASTONK,89.063.1227

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the mercye of Christ blese preserue and keep the sowle and body :
PASTONK,89.063.1228

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Commend me to good mr Roberts PASTONK,89.063.1229

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will Wright to him next weeke if god lett me not :
PASTONK,89.063.1230

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell onc agayne to thy own selfe / PASTONK,89.063.1231

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hast this present thursday late :/ PASTONK,89.063.1232

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father and brother who be bothe very well remember ther loue the :/
PASTONK,89.063.1233

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_063:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most louinge Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,89.063.1234

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_064>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_89>

{ED:66_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1626_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge in Corpus
Christie Colldge Cambridge : PASTONK,89.064.1235

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld , the mercy of the Lorde blese presearue and keep the in
all thy ways words and workes for evermore , to the glory of his owne
nam and to thy good bothe-1 in this and the Liffe to com :/
PASTONK,89.064.1236

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am much ioyed to heer of the continuanc of thy healthe and well
doinge PASTONK,89.064.1237

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god so to blese the , as thow mayest parsever in it to thy
endinge day :/ PASTONK,89.064.1238

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Hartston will needs be the bearer of these commodities I send
the , PASTONK,89.064.1239

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was fearfull becawse of his arme , PASTONK,89.064.1240

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he is confident to goe through with it well :/ PASTONK,89.064.1241

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende the now thy New sute . a girdell , 2 shirts : 2 ruff bands :
PASTONK,89.064.1242

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
as for a beaver hate , if you cowld fitt your selfe with a spetiall
good on I wold be very well content that thow sholdest haue on agaynst
Easter : PASTONK,89.064.1243

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send s to bye on PASTONK,89.064.1244

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if it coms to a littell more I will allow it : PASTONK,89.064.1245

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende the s for thy quarters expenc . s to collby s to Hary Hatston :
PASTONK,89.064.1246

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and giue him that sute that thow didest ride vp in :/
PASTONK,89.064.1247

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the rest of the mony is for mr $Roberts to dispose for thy vse and that
is due to himselfe . PASTONK,89.064.1248

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
moreover I sende the and thy tutor a turkey pasty PASTONK,89.064.1249

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the other is a pateridge peie . a littell Cake and a Littell cheese
for Robin the great Cake the Cheese and the pudinge for thy tutor and
thy self PASTONK,89.064.1250

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lett thy Cosine Robine Bell be partaker also of the rest sumtims
with the : PASTONK,89.064.1251

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe wish them so good as might be devised for the :
PASTONK,89.064.1252

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did forbear to send sooner in Lent becawse I thought shrouetid was
not yett scarsly forgotten : PASTONK,89.064.1253

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
be moderat in atinge peie crust . though it will make the wise :
PASTONK,89.064.1254

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had rayther thow sholdst be wise with out to much of it :/
PASTONK,89.064.1255

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father remembers his loue to the : PASTONK,89.064.1256

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so dothe thy cosine Abygayll her kinde well wishings :
PASTONK,89.064.1257

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Willson allso prayed me to remember her seruise thus
PASTONK,89.064.1258

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thou arte greete of many of the rest :/ PASTONK,89.064.1259

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell to the my sweet harte PASTONK,89.064.1260

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the God of all mercy protect and prosper the : PASTONK,89.064.1261

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to all I know ther : PASTONK,89.064.1262

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farweel agayne and agayne : PASTONK,89.064.1263

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,89.064.1264

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
honest godman Payne wold needs remember the with a fate goose /
PASTONK,89.064.1265

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thow shalt haue thy mony of thy tutor . PASTONK,89.064.1266

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thowght it bad to put it all together ./ PASTONK,89.064.1267

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am afrayd thy brother haue goten an ague PASTONK,89.064.1268

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_064:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is but ill to day :/ PASTONK,89.064.1269

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_065>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_90>

{ED:67_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston of Corpus Christie Colledge
Cambridge PASTONK,90.065.1270

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld I shall be most glad at all times to be even with the ,
though thow willt not giue me leave to goe beyonde the in kindnes ,
PASTONK,90.065.1271

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe like this striffe if I maye so cal it </paren> excelently well .
PASTONK,90.065.1272

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in this kinde the more we striue the better we agree .
PASTONK,90.065.1273

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by this time I hope thou hast receiued as many letters from me as thow
hast written : PASTONK,90.065.1274

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am glade of thine . as thow arte of mine , PASTONK,90.065.1275

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will not fayll the but vpon sume vrgent lett . PASTONK,90.065.1276

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I know thow willt exguse me :/ PASTONK,90.065.1277

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in my last I hade forgot to thanke the for thy newes .
PASTONK,90.065.1278

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sory it was too good to be trwe : PASTONK,90.065.1279

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it made many Ioyefull in redinge of it : PASTONK,90.065.1280

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will not be out of hope , but at least : sume of this ill newes maye
be as much mistaken as the , other was :/ PASTONK,90.065.1281

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god be mercyfull vnto our kinge and state PASTONK,90.065.1282

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for many rumors fliethe abroad of much intended mischiff agaynst bothe
, PASTONK,90.065.1283

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the Lord can prevent ther desingns :/ PASTONK,90.065.1284

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is too trewe that the dunkerkes haue robed and riffled heer a-bowtes
: PASTONK,90.065.1285

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the deputye Leffetenantes haue giuen order for watch night and daye
a longe thes Costs with horse and foote . PASTONK,90.065.1286

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it begune in our towne and so to the rest in order and then to ours
agayne : PASTONK,90.065.1287

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if thay come thaye are not like to receiue a kinde wellcom but as good
as thay be worthye of :/ PASTONK,90.065.1288

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father remembers his loue to the PASTONK,90.065.1289

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and {COM:and_repeated} take thy wrightinge to him very kindly :
PASTONK,90.065.1290

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy brother remember his louingest loue to the PASTONK,90.065.1291

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is very glade of the fine kniffe thow dideste send him : the which
he will weare on high dayes :/ PASTONK,90.065.1292

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke god he is now very well agayne :/ PASTONK,90.065.1293

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had thought to haue written to mr Roberts this time .
PASTONK,90.065.1294

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but this sudene Iornye of this mesinger affordethe me not so much time
PASTONK,90.065.1295

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me very kindly to him PASTONK,90.065.1296

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and exguse me for this time PASTONK,90.065.1297

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will not fayll hime the next opertunyty . PASTONK,90.065.1298

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thowgh I shold haue no time to wright to the . but only so much as to
wright but to on he shold haue it next - PASTONK,90.065.1299

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Farwell my good will : PASTONK,90.065.1300

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lorde in mercy blese the body and sowle for his sweetest name sake
: PASTONK,90.065.1301

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the most worthy good docter :
PASTONK,90.065.1302

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_065:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I rest allwayes : thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston
PASTONK,90.065.1303

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_066>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_90>

{ED:68_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1626_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most beloued Sonne William Paston these deliver at Corpus
Christie Colledge Cambridge PASTONK,90.066.1304

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lorde blese the ever : PASTONK,90.066.1305

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sure thou , willt begine to thinke longe to heer from me :/
PASTONK,90.066.1306

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall be no les glade to heer from the : PASTONK,90.066.1307

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope thow hast a continuall thought of that great beniffitt which
thow <P_91> arte to reseaiue this next Easter ; PASTONK,91.066.1308

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the meditate of all those thinges which maye inlighten thine
vnderstandinge in the knowledge of the right receiueinge of that blesed
sacrament . PASTONK,91.066.1309

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so it is to the worthy receivor :/ PASTONK,91.066.1310

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseche the Lorde to giue the his grase and heauenly blessenge : and
to ackscepte the : for his sweetest nam sake ./ PASTONK,91.066.1311

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I coold not but pute the in minde a littell . PASTONK,91.066.1312

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will only a littell : seinge thow haste such excelent means to
direct the in that plase amongst such good frindes which dothe respecte
thy wellfare in the cheefest kinde : PASTONK,91.066.1313

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
only thow must make vse of that means . PASTONK,91.066.1314

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it dothe mightyly concerne the so to doe : PASTONK,91.066.1315

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am full of hope that thow willt haue a greater Care now then ever .
seeinge thow arte now to parforme a greater worke then ever :
PASTONK,91.066.1316

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or much rayther I shold saye thow arte to receiue a greater blesinge
then ever yett thow hast receiued : although thow hast hade bestowed
vpon the from the Lord many singular beniffits . yett non comparable to
this :/ PASTONK,91.066.1317

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lorde make the and me thankefull for them all :/
PASTONK,91.066.1318

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke god thy father is well : PASTONK,91.066.1319

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy brother haue loste his ague this 8 or : days . So that I hope
in god the worst is past :/ PASTONK,91.066.1320

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all heer salutes the . PASTONK,91.066.1321

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy Cosine Iohn Holland and thy Cosine Mun Holland : wear bothe heer to
se the PASTONK,91.066.1322

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but coold not stay aboue an hower : PASTONK,91.066.1323

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thay remember them to the PASTONK,91.066.1324

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so doe I : PASTONK,91.066.1325

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the remember me to good mr Roberts : PASTONK,91.066.1326

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so for this time I bide the most hartily farwell
PASTONK,91.066.1327

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this present friday night : PASTONK,91.066.1328

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_066:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,91.066.1329

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_067>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_91>

{ED:69_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:31_March_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at his Lodginge at corpus
Christie Colledge Cambridge PASTONK,91.067.1330

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My sweete will : the mercy and blesinge of the Allmighty be ever more
vpon the : PASTONK,91.067.1331

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shold not perform my promis and purpose if I shold not wright a
littell to the : PASTONK,91.067.1332

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if god lett me not I will not fayll the onc a weeke to salute the .
till I see the : which I shall by reson of sume ocations doe sooner
then I did intend if the Lord Please :/ PASTONK,91.067.1333

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this daye beinge friday we had comfortable news from yarmowthe . that
the king haue bine pleased to send 8 braue ships to gward the seae men
. PASTONK,91.067.1334

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther ar gon bye this day a very great fleet . of iseland men . and tvoo
ships of the kings gone with them :/ PASTONK,91.067.1335

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the northesea men are shortly to sett oute PASTONK,91.067.1336

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and 4 of the kings ships shall goe with them . PASTONK,91.067.1337

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and other 2 great ships well appoynted to sckoor the seas our men
begines to be cheerly agayne and packe to yarmouth dayly :
PASTONK,91.067.1338

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld PASTONK,91.067.1339

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lorde in mercy presearue the . PASTONK,91.067.1340

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to thy Cosin Robine bell , PASTONK,91.067.1341

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in grat hast I rest PASTONK,91.067.1342

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
friday last of March 1626 :/ PASTONK,91.067.1343

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_067:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,91.067.1344

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_068>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_92>

{ED:70_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Early_April_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston these at Corpus Cristy Colledge
these Cambridge PASTONK,92.068.1345

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My sweet will : the Lord blese the ever PASTONK,92.068.1346

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beinge at Norwich , haue mett with thy louinge letters and kinde
tokens , PASTONK,92.068.1347

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I thanke the for thy loue , PASTONK,92.068.1348

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad to heer by every letter that thy good health continuethe
, as allso thy stedy purpos to be a comfortable and a good child ,
PASTONK,92.068.1349

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech the allmighty to assist the with his blesed and holy spirit
</paren> to perseuer in his feare the which will guide the in every
good and perfitt way ./ PASTONK,92.068.1350

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad to wright to the thowgh it be a short letter :
PASTONK,92.068.1351

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my wearynes , and smal time to stay heer might have exgvsed me at
this time of wrighting : PASTONK,92.068.1352

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I will not omite on weeke <paren> with out a great lett : </paren>
wrightinge to the till I se the , PASTONK,92.068.1353

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the Commend me very kindly to good mr Roberts
PASTONK,92.068.1354

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I thanke him I pray the for his comfortable and kind letter /
PASTONK,92.068.1355

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and good chilld haue a care still to be rulled by his good Cownsell and
direcktions , PASTONK,92.068.1356

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know asuredly it doe mightyly concern thy good every way :/
PASTONK,92.068.1357

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wright this as much in a hast as may be : with a pen of my Cosine
Cooks which I think haue writen many an indenture , PASTONK,92.068.1358

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is but a bad on PASTONK,92.068.1359

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my hast makes it not better PASTONK,92.068.1360

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell to thy deer selfe </paren> PASTONK,92.068.1361

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Christ Iesus blese the evermore : PASTONK,92.068.1362

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy good father I thanke god is finely well PASTONK,92.068.1363

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thy prety brothers fitts are sumwhat qualyfied ,
PASTONK,92.068.1364

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell agayne and agayne PASTONK,92.068.1365

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_068:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louing Mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,92.068.1366

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_069>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_92>

{ED:71_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Late_September_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloued sonne William Paston these whersoever he be : deliver
Norwich PASTONK,92.069.1367

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good child the mercy of Iesus Christ be for ever more with the .
PASTONK,92.069.1368

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I coold not but wright these few lines to the . by which thow mayst
know I doe not forgett the . PASTONK,92.069.1369

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send this mesinger to heer of the PASTONK,92.069.1370

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god I may heer that thow beest well . PASTONK,92.069.1371

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the haue a care of thy self every way bothe-1 for health and
Complement : PASTONK,92.069.1372

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wish that tom ayde might make you a handsom winter sute that might be
meet for Cambridge to wear with your gown that is ther
PASTONK,92.069.1373

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thinke a scarlet on ; PASTONK,92.069.1374

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
els your gowne will be to good for your sute PASTONK,92.069.1375

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that gown doe grow so short that affter this winter ther will be no
more vse of it for a gown : PASTONK,92.069.1376

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I heer thay be all well at <P_93> Cambridg PASTONK,93.069.1377

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tills is on the mendinge hand it seems PASTONK,93.069.1378

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he had a spotted Ague : PASTONK,93.069.1379

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther haue died at wallsom but thre ; this two days PASTONK,93.069.1380

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thay be childeren : PASTONK,93.069.1381

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the howse at trunch is saffly garded it is sayd PASTONK,93.069.1382

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
purgall died not of the siknes . PASTONK,93.069.1383

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the howshold ther , is all well as yett : PASTONK,93.069.1384

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father is down agayne with his legge PASTONK,93.069.1385

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and very ill it is : PASTONK,93.069.1386

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good child vntill munday PASTONK,93.069.1387

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the remember me too all good frinds wher so ever thow beest
PASTONK,93.069.1388

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the lord for ever blese preserve and keep the now and $ever
PASTONK,93.069.1389

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,93.069.1390

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_069:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
winnett was maried this mihellmas day to you know who :/:/:/
PASTONK,93.069.1391

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_070>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_93>

{ED:72_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:27_October_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my Deerest sone William Paston these at Corpus Christy Coledge
Cambridge PASTONK,93.070.1392

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord in mercy blese the ever PASTONK,93.070.1393

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe still salute the from paston PASTONK,93.070.1394

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my next $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} from Pagraue . whether we all goe ,
on tusday if the Lord parmite : PASTONK,93.070.1395

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy fathers illnes of his legge haue bine the Cawse of our stay
PASTONK,93.070.1396

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he was faynt to take Phisike for it : PASTONK,93.070.1397

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yett it is bigge so that he can not endure on his boote .
PASTONK,93.070.1398

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I hop by tusday it will be better : PASTONK,93.070.1399

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now for the new horse you coped for : I fear he is sum surfitted
Iade : PASTONK,93.070.1400

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for before thay cam at thetford with him : thay had much a doe to make
him goe . PASTONK,93.070.1401

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he fell so sike . and into a scooringe extremity . so thay thowght he
wold never haue gone further PASTONK,93.070.1402

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yet with much a doe thay brought him to Tunsted PASTONK,93.070.1403

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and leafft him with bat: browne who will doe his best to recouer him :
PASTONK,93.070.1404

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I parswad me if he can not healpe him : no farier can :
PASTONK,93.070.1405

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent yesterday to se him PASTONK,93.070.1406

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he bigine to mend . PASTONK,93.070.1407

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if he com hom I will take order for his goinge to basingham wod :
PASTONK,93.070.1408

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
rest may do him much good . PASTONK,93.070.1409

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now my good will : I pray the make good vse of thy beinge ther .
PASTONK,93.070.1410

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue a spetiall care of thy self every way . bothe-1 for thy minde
: and bodyly healthe . that thow mayest return agayne compleat every
way PASTONK,93.070.1411

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this is the time . PASTONK,93.070.1412

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
acordinge to that prescept in the morninge sowe thy seed :
PASTONK,93.070.1413

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in the Eevninge lett not thy hand be idle : PASTONK,93.070.1414

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell good child . PASTONK,93.070.1415

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me very kindly to mr Roberts : and thy owne selfe
:/ PASTONK,93.070.1416

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in great hast this friday before Hollwmas 1626 PASTONK,93.070.1417

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_070:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Ka: Paston PASTONK,93.070.1418

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_071>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_94>

{ED:73_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:1_November_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my deerest sonne William Paston at Cambridge Corpus Christy Colledge
PASTONK,94.071.1419

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld I do now salute the from Pagraue whether wee be all com
, saffe and well ; thankes be to god : PASTONK,94.071.1420

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
only thy father is much trubled with his poor legge PASTONK,94.071.1421

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I hop to gett it well soon : PASTONK,94.071.1422

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
heer is no hope of thy cominge hether to vs for want of lodginge .
PASTONK,94.071.1423

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the howses be very Raughty and Cowld : PASTONK,94.071.1424

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thanke god we can supply that with good fiers of which we are
very glad . PASTONK,94.071.1425

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we haue that of free cost : PASTONK,94.071.1426

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but we want Roome for our company . PASTONK,94.071.1427

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we are faynt to send 4. of our company to naybors . that are half a
mylle ofe : which is a great in convenienc :/ PASTONK,94.071.1428

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god send healthe at Wallsom and at trunch . wher thay die still
out of purgalls howse . PASTONK,94.071.1429

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is mutered on : that it is at mundsly : PASTONK,94.071.1430

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for 2 died out of on howse on soon after the other .
PASTONK,94.071.1431

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord in mercy be mercyfull to them and vs all :/
PASTONK,94.071.1432

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if it please god to send healthe abowte our hom . we will all be at
paston thys Christmase PASTONK,94.071.1433

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if the sikenes shold continew , then we must be constrayned to tary
heer longer : PASTONK,94.071.1434

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
when I know more you shall :/ PASTONK,94.071.1435

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sory for the bargayne was driuen betwen Robine Bell and Rowland
for the nagge . PASTONK,94.071.1436

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my sister bell did take it very ill , that her sonn showld goe so
much by the lose :/ PASTONK,94.071.1437

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know not whose falte it was ; PASTONK,94.071.1438

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I know to howme it is imputed :/ PASTONK,94.071.1439

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
she sent hom Rowlands horse PASTONK,94.071.1440

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent for Robins . PASTONK,94.071.1441

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I sent him to thorp : PASTONK,94.071.1442

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so Rowlands poor horse and your more then poor bargayne for sorill :
goethe together ; PASTONK,94.071.1443

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue taken order thay shall be gelded : PASTONK,94.071.1444

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue taken order thay shall goe bothe to basingham wode . so soon as
thay be able to trauill so fare a Iorny :/ PASTONK,94.071.1445

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me very kindly to the good docter
PASTONK,94.071.1446

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray the thanke him for his kindnes to the PASTONK,94.071.1447

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
allso I prae remember me very kindly to thy good tutor and last of all
to thy Owne selfe :/ PASTONK,94.071.1448

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray thee blesinge and mercy of god be ever more with the and vs all
: PASTONK,94.071.1449

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so farwell my good chilld : PASTONK,94.071.1450

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this present Hallowmas day : PASTONK,94.071.1451

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,94.071.1452

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can not yett learne by what means to send to Cambridge from this
plase PASTONK,94.071.1453

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we are with in a mill of Swafam . PASTONK,94.071.1454

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_071:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you know any com thether you may wright PASTONK,94.071.1455

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_072>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_94>

{ED:74_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:13_November_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne william Paston of Corpus Christy Colledge at his
lodginge these I pray ye deliver at Cambridge PASTONK,94.072.1456

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord Ihesus blese the PASTONK,94.072.1457

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and keep the in all his ways . that thay may be thy ways .
PASTONK,94.072.1458

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray and humbly besech the Lord that he <P_95> will giue the that
grase , that thow aboue all things mayest haue a desire and delight to
seeke and finde euen all thy Liffe longe ; what is best pleasinge to
his maieste : and doe that : PASTONK,95.072.1459

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Lett me putt the in minde of his great and tender loue shewed to
the in time of thy last Ague : and of thy vnfaynd promises to him ; if
he wold be pleased to remoue it from the : PASTONK,95.072.1460

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he did heer PASTONK,95.072.1461

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hade mercy . PASTONK,95.072.1462

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray , the forgett not thow to be thankefull every day for so great a
kindnes : PASTONK,95.072.1463

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I am Asured he will for ever preserue the from all evell
PASTONK,95.072.1464

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so he haue promised to doe to all them that seeke him in feare :/
PASTONK,95.072.1465

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I likewis pray to god , so to guide the : that thow mayest not
adicte thy selfe to that vayn garbe : which is most in fation amongst
youthe in these times . which to my thinkinge is such for the most part
: </paren> as promisethe no hope of grase in them for the present .
much lese a blesinge for the world to come :/ PASTONK,95.072.1466

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very glad to heer thow arte so pleasinge to the master of your
howse as hee is pleased to afforde the so much faver .
PASTONK,95.072.1467

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hop thow willt continew so respectiue to him as is fitt thow showlde
PASTONK,95.072.1468

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the commend me to thy good tutor : PASTONK,95.072.1469

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thow shalt exguse my not writinge , PASTONK,95.072.1470

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yett I shall be glad to heer from him as ocation serue
PASTONK,95.072.1471

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so shall hee from me : PASTONK,95.072.1472

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was out of hope to haue written to the this weeke : but that this
honest mane one of the farmers of sporll promised me to se it deliuered
with his owne hande to the . PASTONK,95.072.1473

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it may be thow mightist inquier out som foot post that coms to linne by
saffham PASTONK,95.072.1474

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so thow sholdest heer weekely from me and I from the :
PASTONK,95.072.1475

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue not heard from hom sinc I cam from theare PASTONK,95.072.1476

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nayther haue I had on of thy letters this $fortnight
PASTONK,95.072.1477

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but on munday I expect Collison with two of thy letters which shall be
most wellcom to me . PASTONK,95.072.1478

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke god we be all very well in this plase and thy fathers legge
now finely recouerd affter so longe an illnes as I haue selldom known
him to haue it ./ PASTONK,95.072.1479

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld for this time PASTONK,95.072.1480

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
writtine in hast this 13 of November 1626 PASTONK,95.072.1481

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_072:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,95.072.1482

<Q_PAK_A_1626?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_073>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_95>

{ED:75_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:November_1626?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston of Corpus Christy Colledge at his
Lodginge ther these Cambridge PASTONK,95.073.1483

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld Christ Iesus blese the for ever more PASTONK,95.073.1484

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope before this time thow hast receiued my letter , which I sent by
younge Iohn Wyteman of sporll : PASTONK,95.073.1485

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue likewis inquired out this honest foot post : whose name is Nipps
. PASTONK,95.073.1486

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he haue promysed to deliuer the this my letter , PASTONK,95.073.1487

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so shalt thow haue two : this weeke from me : PASTONK,95.073.1488

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I shall want a nesenger for my next weekes letter . wherfor it
$will $be {TEXT:willbe} a fort night befor I wright agayne to the :/
PASTONK,95.073.1489

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this daye I receiued letters from Paston , PASTONK,95.073.1490

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I her that ther died but .4. at Wallsom wherof but on chilld in the
marketsted . the other 3. in the out shiffts . PASTONK,95.073.1491

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
not on this fortnight at trunch : PASTONK,95.073.1492

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but .6. at Norwich in all , died the <P_96> last weeke : wherof not on
of the visitation : PASTONK,96.073.1493

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
blesed be our mercyfull and grasious Lord for his gratious deliueranc :
PASTONK,96.073.1494

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray god send vs to heer good news still from hom : that we may
returne in saffitie thether agayne :/ PASTONK,96.073.1495

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have reciued bothe thy kinde letters together PASTONK,96.073.1496

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am exedingly glad to heer of thy healthe and well doinge
PASTONK,96.073.1497

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall always pray my god : to blese the in all good Coorses that in
liff and deathe thow mayst be his : for his mercy sake ./
PASTONK,96.073.1498

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther coold non be more glad to se the onc a weeke , I onc a day or an
hower : PASTONK,96.073.1499

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
might it be as much for thy good as I coold wish . PASTONK,96.073.1500

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but surly ther is the plase , PASTONK,96.073.1501

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now is the time to doe thy self good by applyinge thy time in good and
vertuous delights . PASTONK,96.073.1502

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if thow canst not attayne to Learninge the Lattin tounge parfitly .
yet bestow thy time in redinge good Inglish bookes which may furnish
thy minde with delitfull good things : PASTONK,96.073.1503

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the post postethe me so as I can tary no longer at this time ,
PASTONK,96.073.1504

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good Will : PASTONK,96.073.1505

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord keep the ever : PASTONK,96.073.1506

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the good docter to hom I am much $beholdinge
for thy sake :/ PASTONK,96.073.1507

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Commend me likewis to thy good tutor PASTONK,96.073.1508

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by the next oppertunyty I will wright to him : PASTONK,96.073.1509

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16?
LETTER:PASTONK_073:E2:1626?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to Roberte bell : and last not least to thy own self by thy
most louing mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,96.073.1510

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_074>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_96>

{ED:76_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:23_November_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston of Corpus Christy Colledge thes at
Camdbridge PASTONK,96.074.1511

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good child the mercy of Christ Ihesus be ever more vpon the :/
PASTONK,96.074.1512

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue much longed to heer of my foot post . by whom I did send my
letter to the with a lease of pateridges : PASTONK,96.074.1513

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
his nam was nipps . if he did not giue the child a wronge nam :
PASTONK,96.074.1514

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I feare he is nipt in the Crowne that he is not yett returned .
PASTONK,96.074.1515

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he haue fayled of his promis to me . PASTONK,96.074.1516

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he sayd he wold bring a letter from the as wedensday the 22.
PASTONK,96.074.1517

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he is not com this thursday 23 at noon PASTONK,96.074.1518

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was very glad to send to the by this good oppertunyty of mr Rawlins
his lucky goinge to Norwich , hopinge he will deliuer these my letters
to the Camberidge Carier PASTONK,96.074.1519

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then shalt thow haue on agayne sooner then I coold haue sent by any
other means PASTONK,96.074.1520

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad that thow sholdest heer of me as offt as posible I can :
PASTONK,96.074.1521

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am glad to heer of the too . PASTONK,96.074.1522

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shold be glad to se the too :/ PASTONK,96.074.1523

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue fownd a deall of owld ruinous howses and all things exedingly
rune to decaye : PASTONK,96.074.1524

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and out of all the Corners . I haue fownd out a room with a chimney
which I am finifienge vp for the . for to help vs to keep Christmas in
:/ PASTONK,96.074.1525

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we can not now remowe before that time :/ PASTONK,96.074.1526

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we doe now begine to be nestled heer : PASTONK,96.074.1527

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and are loathe to stur to goe so fare a Iorny in such short days
</paren> as to paston :/ PASTONK,96.074.1528

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god to scease his heauie hand that we may all be glad to goe hom
agayne after that time : PASTONK,96.074.1529

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I blese god we be all very well in health and thy father most exelent
well even every way : PASTONK,96.074.1530

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
god <em> howld him </em> so for ever now PASTONK,96.074.1531

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue receiued a packet <P_97> with letters from Cambridge : by the
hand of young mr Stallon : PASTONK,97.074.1532

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue no time to answer them now :/ PASTONK,97.074.1533

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me to the good doctore PASTONK,97.074.1534

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke him for his so kinde wrightinge and for his great loue and
favor showd to the : PASTONK,97.074.1535

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad as you say that owld father nipps did not nip away the
pateridgis from the :/ PASTONK,97.074.1536

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yett he is not com : PASTONK,97.074.1537

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell to thy own selfe my good will : PASTONK,97.074.1538

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_074:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
writen as fast as I can driue : by thy most louinge mother Katherine
Paston PASTONK,97.074.1539

<Q_PAK_A_1626_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_075>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_97>

{ED:77_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:4_December_1626}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston of Corpus Christie Coledge
Cambridge PASTONK,97.075.1540

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : Christ Ihesuse blese the ever PASTONK,97.075.1541

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue now fullfilled thy longinge desire PASTONK,97.075.1542

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue sente for the . PASTONK,97.075.1543

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had purposed to haue sent the next munday for the .
PASTONK,97.075.1544

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now thow shallt com sumwhat before all things be so ' well fitted
as I wold haue had them . PASTONK,97.075.1545

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thow shallt take them as thay be :/ PASTONK,97.075.1546

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the haue a great Care to keep thy selfe very warm .
PASTONK,97.075.1547

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and put sumwhat about thy neck PASTONK,97.075.1548

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thou arte very much subict to payne in thy throat .
PASTONK,97.075.1549

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if need be , wear a Cape - PASTONK,97.075.1550

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther cane come no harem of keepinge warme : PASTONK,97.075.1551

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall de dubly comforted to receiue the with good healthe :/
PASTONK,97.075.1552

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold haue invited thy Cosine Robine bell to haue com this way .
PASTONK,97.075.1553

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but want of lodginge is the only impediment . PASTONK,97.075.1554

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to him I pray the : PASTONK,97.075.1555

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god send the a good and prosperous Iorny : PASTONK,97.075.1556

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good child PASTONK,97.075.1557

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the mercy of god be ever withe the :/ PASTONK,97.075.1558

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now I will say no more hopinge to se the on wedensdy
PASTONK,97.075.1559

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the rest when we meet :/ PASTONK,97.075.1560

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in hast PASTONK,97.075.1561

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pagraue PASTONK,97.075.1562

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the 4 of desember 1626 :/ PASTONK,97.075.1563

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:16
LETTER:PASTONK_075:E2:1626:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most louinge Mother :/ Kathrine Paston PASTONK,97.075.1564

<Q_PAK_A_1627_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_076>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_97>

{ED:78_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:7_February_1627}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloued sonne - william Paston these att Corpus Christy Colledge
these Cambridge PASTONK,97.076.1565

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord blese the ever :/ PASTONK,97.076.1566

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue a great desire to heer how you doe with your cowld .
PASTONK,97.076.1567

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you will haue so good a care as that it shall not increase vpon
the . which I might well perceiue it did heer :/ PASTONK,97.076.1568

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue not herd directly from paston sinc your goinge a way from
pagraue . PASTONK,97.076.1569

<P_98>

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but at a seconde hand I heard it . that Iohn Gowld shold report that an
other died in Coks howse on thursday last PASTONK,98.076.1570

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I beinge at Linne on munday last on of our company spake with
Gowllt . ther :/ who sayd hee cam from paston on friday last .
PASTONK,98.076.1571

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then ther wear not any more dead . then was befor your goinge from
hence :/ PASTONK,98.076.1572

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he heard owld Coke had gotten cowld and was not very well :/
PASTONK,98.076.1573

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so what is true I know not , PASTONK,98.076.1574

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is strange that two so neer nayghbours shold differ so fare in ther
repoorts :/ PASTONK,98.076.1575

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} very glad if the market man you tell me ofe
, may prove a certine mesinger betwen vs . PASTONK,98.076.1576

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe giue the ventur first . PASTONK,98.076.1577

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if this shold miscary I wold seeke a new one :/ PASTONK,98.076.1578

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the commend me most kindly to good mr Roberts
PASTONK,98.076.1579

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will some other time wright to him . PASTONK,98.076.1580

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but at this time I am good weary of my late Iorny from line : wher I
taried not full 23 howers . PASTONK,98.076.1581

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I was never wearier of any London Iorny then of this ./
PASTONK,98.076.1582

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld PASTONK,98.076.1583

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
commend me to thy cosine Robine . and thy owne sellfe whowm I wish too
as my owne sowle :/ PASTONK,98.076.1584

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in hast PASTONK,98.076.1585

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pagraue PASTONK,98.076.1586

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this Ash wedensday 1626/7 PASTONK,98.076.1587

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_076:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge Mother : Katherine Paston PASTONK,98.076.1588

<Q_PAK_A_1627?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_077>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_98>

{ED:79_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:February_1627_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most beloued sonne William Paston of Corpus Christie Colledge
Cambridge PASTONK,98.077.1589

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord his sweet mercy and bleasinge be evermore vppon
the and vs all :/ PASTONK,98.077.1590

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke the for thy many letters . PASTONK,98.077.1591

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thay can neuer be too many :/ PASTONK,98.077.1592

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now least I shold forget to be thankefull for a sorte of tokens .
bothe-1 for booke and candell : ther want but a bell ;
PASTONK,98.077.1593

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
coold you not haue parswaded your Cosine mun bell . to haue com this
way : PASTONK,98.077.1594

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
then I shold haue bine fully suplyed of bell booke and candell :/
PASTONK,98.077.1595

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I say least I shold forgett to thanke the </paren> PASTONK,98.077.1596

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will begine with it : <paren> as allso for the pote of oliues :
</paren> PASTONK,98.077.1597

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iohn Gowld was to trew a prophsier PASTONK,98.077.1598

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for more then ten days did he giue out that younge Koks child was
buried . befor it was sike : PASTONK,98.077.1599

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but that littel younge child was quite cast away : as we may I thinke
say willingly and foolishly , PASTONK,98.077.1600

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is sayd for certine that when the owld man was sike of two sors
: the younge folks sent the child to his grandfather :
PASTONK,98.077.1601

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the owld man did keepe the child PASTONK,98.077.1602

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made it lie with him a nights when he was at that poor pase him
selfe . PASTONK,98.077.1603

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so the child was buried on munday was seunenight PASTONK,98.077.1604

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and on sunday was younge koks wiffe prayed for at church :/
PASTONK,98.077.1605

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I heer she is now on the mendinge hand : PASTONK,98.077.1606

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
of 12 of them . ther are but 5 : leafft aliue . PASTONK,98.077.1607

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and 4. of them haue bine sike . PASTONK,98.077.1608

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so now my hops and thoughts : be at an ende for goinge to paston vntill
it shold please god to remoue his heavie hand : PASTONK,98.077.1609

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
al the towne is very well ells : PASTONK,98.077.1610

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so are the nayghbour towns PASTONK,98.077.1611

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Phillups quartine Ague is com to a Cotidian ague PASTONK,98.077.1612

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it takes him in the night . PASTONK,98.077.1613

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yett is he now more cheerly with his every day fitts . then when thay
cam every third day PASTONK,98.077.1614

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now farwell my good chilld PASTONK,98.077.1615

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Lord send vs a Ioyfull meetine at paston PASTONK,98.077.1616

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this is my sixt letter . PASTONK,98.077.1617

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I assure the I am <P_99> very weary :/ PASTONK,99.077.1618

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir Charll grose haue sente to borow horses of thy father agaynst the
Asises : PASTONK,99.077.1619

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so by that means I can not so soone sende to Cambridge as otherwis I
wold : PASTONK,99.077.1620

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but affter the Assies weeke , I will not fayll to send to the :
PASTONK,99.077.1621

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld for this time : PASTONK,99.077.1622

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father remember his loue to the PASTONK,99.077.1623

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so doe I : PASTONK,99.077.1624

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_077:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,99.077.1625

<Q_PAK_A_1627?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_078>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_99>

{ED:80_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:February_1627?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my beloued sonne William Paston of Corpus Christie Colledge at his
Chamber ther Cambridge PASTONK,99.078.1626

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lord Ihesus blese the for ever more :/
PASTONK,99.078.1627

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not yet know , what to thinke of this new fownde pedder :
PASTONK,99.078.1628

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I had sett by my rest , onc a weeke , namly on the wedensdays to
haue written to the : hopeinge to haue hearde from cambridge on the
munday every week by him :/ PASTONK,99.078.1629

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now I parceive he will haue such a wandering and vncertine motion ,
as till he doe appeer in his liknes . I shall not know when nor whear
to finde him : PASTONK,99.078.1630

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for by good chance I heard . he must haue my letter this sunday night :
if I will sende any by him : the which I sende . thowgh my warninge was
very vnseasonble :/ PASTONK,99.078.1631

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I therfor can not so conveniently wright to thy tutor at this tim .
PASTONK,99.078.1632

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is as much as I can doe for this :/ PASTONK,99.078.1633

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue heard lately from paston . PASTONK,99.078.1634

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Phillup haue bine at deathes dore with his ague . PASTONK,99.078.1635

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I hope the mallics of it is past . becawse he write he findes
himself more cheerly then ever he coold be till he had overcom
extremities cawsed by his fitts ./ PASTONK,99.078.1636

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
non haue died in Cokes howse this 3 weeks ./ PASTONK,99.078.1637

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wright </paren> that younge Coks wiffe is sike , but sayde to be
an ague . PASTONK,99.078.1638

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god gravnte thate be the worste PASTONK,99.078.1639

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
otherwis al the towne is well . PASTONK,99.078.1640

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
blasead be god for it :/ PASTONK,99.078.1641

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am very sory to heer . mun bell is so very ill PASTONK,99.078.1642

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god amend him every way :/ PASTONK,99.078.1643

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell me if this be not the dangerous yeer for you / new bachilors .
PASTONK,99.078.1644

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if other new bachilers shold meet you prowder then thaier sellues .
take heed PASTONK,99.078.1645

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be ware of pride therfore least &c ./ PASTONK,99.078.1646

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld in all hast that may be : PASTONK,99.078.1647

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but forgett me not to thy good tutor PASTONK,99.078.1648

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope to haue more leisure to wright to him by the next certine
mesinger :/ PASTONK,99.078.1649

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so the Lord be with the : PASTONK,99.078.1650

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most Louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,99.078.1651

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your sceruante Phillupe wold goe neer to pose you with his new englishe
: PASTONK,99.078.1652

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he cam with tears in his eies to me PASTONK,99.078.1653

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sayd : his Nastas goggs did dite ha hans : PASTONK,99.078.1654

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was desirous onc more to heer his pretty playnt : PASTONK,99.078.1655

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he cried nasta lillo goggs did dite his hans : PASTONK,99.078.1656

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_078:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your 3. $pupis weare so bowld with him : PASTONK,99.078.1657

<Q_PAK_A_1627?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_079>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_100>

{ED:81_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:February_1627_?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston these Corpus Christie College
Cambridge PASTONK,100.079.1658

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the lord Ihesus christ blese the ever more :
PASTONK,100.079.1659

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue receiued thy louinge lines together with mr. Roberts letter by
your honest pedder PASTONK,100.079.1660

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I feare I shall disapoynt him this weeke PASTONK,100.079.1661

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for this youthe will not be sayd nay . PASTONK,100.079.1662

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but must haue a letter for you PASTONK,100.079.1663

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I doe not vnwillingly wright by him but by way of prevention only ,
that whearas you wear desirous to make a speedy Iorny and a suddine
return together with thy tutor : I pray the to forbere yett a whill
from cominge : PASTONK,100.079.1664

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so it is that two or 3 : of our company haue bine of late exedingly
ill with Agues Cowld and sweld fase , so that I haue bine faynt to make
vse of thy Chamber for some of our Company . not knowinge what shifft
to haue made with out it : PASTONK,100.079.1665

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent for mr Birch who haue bine heer ever since thursday last :
PASTONK,100.079.1666

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he liethe in your brother toms chamber . PASTONK,100.079.1667

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tom I haue sent to my Cosine Cokes his howse till mr Birch his
returne : PASTONK,100.079.1668

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then he com back in the cotch . PASTONK,100.079.1669

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this poor shifft am I faynt to make for lodginge , so that if thow
sholdest now com , it wold be very vnsesonable . PASTONK,100.079.1670

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust the Lord will bringe vs safe to paston whear I haue wished me
full many a time :/ PASTONK,100.079.1671

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if I heer any news from paston on wedensday by George prowse who is
then to com I will send the an other letter by the pedder
PASTONK,100.079.1672

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if I heer not from them then take this for all :/
PASTONK,100.079.1673

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good will PASTONK,100.079.1674

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember my love to thy owne selfe and Cosine Robine ,
PASTONK,100.079.1675

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forget me not to thy tutore in all hast . PASTONK,100.079.1676

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most loueinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,100.079.1677

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall be glad of a quire of gillt paper . PASTONK,100.079.1678

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_079:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will be in your dept for it . PASTONK,100.079.1679

<Q_PAK_A_1627?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_080>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_100>

{ED:82_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:March_1627?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne william Paston of Corpus Christie Colledge in
Cambridge PASTONK,100.080.1680

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good will : I pray god blese and directe the ever :/
PASTONK,100.080.1681

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue bine much crosed in my intentions PASTONK,100.080.1682

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
otherwis I had sente on on purpos to haue brought you such things as
now I am faynt to sende by the pedder PASTONK,100.080.1683

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and am not certine whether he will doe this kindnes for me to overlode
his horse with a bigger burden then ordinary :/ PASTONK,100.080.1684

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I will pute that in a venture , PASTONK,100.080.1685

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will content him for his payns . PASTONK,100.080.1686

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send the the peye , which I hop is yett good . PASTONK,100.080.1687

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and mistress Rawline sende you and your Cosine Robine <P_101> Cheese
pudinges and links :/ PASTONK,101.080.1688

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god I may euer heer of your well beinge and doinge .
PASTONK,101.080.1689

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it dothe metigate all other trubles : PASTONK,101.080.1690

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so am I but sumwhat to tender as yett to indur the Ayer .
PASTONK,101.080.1691

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
mr Birch did vs much comforte . PASTONK,101.080.1692

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he went hom in my Cotch . PASTONK,101.080.1693

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and mun made shiffte to breake on of the Cotch wheels .
PASTONK,101.080.1694

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue layne for an Nue payer . ever since $wedensday was sevenight
PASTONK,101.080.1695

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it will be tusday next before he can be furnisht agayne .
PASTONK,101.080.1696

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iohn Borows haue bine very ill . PASTONK,101.080.1697

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but mr Stallon puts him in good Comforte of recouery .
PASTONK,101.080.1698

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent thy brother to norwich in the Cotch when I sent for mr Birch
thinking he shold not haue taried about 4. or 5. days
PASTONK,101.080.1699

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but so haue I bine disapoynted by on or other means . that now I am
determined ther to stay hime . vntill it please god I may bringe him to
paston :/ whether we hope to goe . if god send healthe in that plase
soon affter Easter . PASTONK,101.080.1700

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is veryly hoped that the sikenes is stayed at koks :
PASTONK,101.080.1701

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sure you haue longe agoe heard of the rute the dunkerks made at
bacton . to mr Tomsons great lose : and of the bothe musket and Canon
shot . thay sent amonge the peeoplle : what time koke and his sone Came
downe to the seae side . and made the Company rune faster away then the
dunkerks bullets : PASTONK,101.080.1702

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue stayed your sorill heer to doe vs some $service in our remoue
when it shall please god : PASTONK,101.080.1703

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my $sonne you shold not bye mares : PASTONK,101.080.1704

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
geldings <em> suit you </em> much better . PASTONK,101.080.1705

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold you coold hitt of a good handsome gelldinge agayne . and then
loue to keep him . PASTONK,101.080.1706

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold like it a thowsand times better then this kinde of fation which
of late you delighted in . PASTONK,101.080.1707

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my thinke it is next Cosine to horse Coorsinge . which is no way
comendable in on of your sorte . PASTONK,101.080.1708

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray god giue you a good Iudgement . and his holy spirte of God to
direct you in all good Coorses bothe-2 for this liffe and the world to
com / PASTONK,101.080.1709

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray Comend me to thy good tutore and Cosine Robine :
PASTONK,101.080.1710

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the Lord in mercy blese the ever PASTONK,101.080.1711

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy father remember his loue to the PASTONK,101.080.1712

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so doe I :/ PASTONK,101.080.1713

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy most louinge mother K P_NPR PASTONK,101.080.1714

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Linnen Clothe which coms with the things I send .
PASTONK,101.080.1715

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_080:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lett Rowland bringe it with him when you next com hom
PASTONK,101.080.1716

<Q_PAK_A_1627?_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_081>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_101>

{ED:83_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:Late_March_1627?}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne - William Paston at Corpus Christie Coledge in
Cambridge PASTONK,101.081.1717

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good child Christ Ihesus blese the ever more PASTONK,101.081.1718

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke god I can now tell the , that we are preparinge home .
PASTONK,101.081.1719

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hope to be there before Easter . PASTONK,101.081.1720

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if thow sholdest now come to pagraue . thow sholdest not finde a
lodginge PASTONK,101.081.1721

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we pake all a way PASTONK,101.081.1722

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iohn borows is extremly ill PASTONK,101.081.1723

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I feare he will hardly eskape it . PASTONK,101.081.1724

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not know what to think exept he be in a consumtion .
PASTONK,101.081.1725

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I in tend to send him home first :/ PASTONK,101.081.1726

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
at this time is your Cosine Betty mondeford at pagraue .
PASTONK,101.081.1727

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my sister haue sente very kindly to se me . PASTONK,101.081.1728

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I have receiued from her : 3. or 4 kinde letters very latly of
which I am very <P_102> glad :/ PASTONK,102.081.1729

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue a great desire that thow sholdest receiue the Holy Communion in
that plase , PASTONK,102.081.1730

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold not for any thinge you shold com away before that time :
PASTONK,102.081.1731

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you haue the good docter wallsalls his directions for preparinge
your self before that time ./ PASTONK,102.081.1732

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I coold be most glad allways to haue the at home with me ,
PASTONK,102.081.1733

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but sure it can not be so good for the to be at hom , as to be ther .
PASTONK,102.081.1734

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know if thow doest make good vse of thy time ther , in any resonable
measure : it maye doe the good all the days of thy liffe ;
PASTONK,102.081.1735

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
besides : ther is that soscietie which thow delitest in . the wante of
which at home dothe make the loue to be much abroad . and maye bringe
those inconveniencis which I wold be sory for PASTONK,102.081.1736

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
conscider ; who is ther to keep the company : PASTONK,102.081.1737

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wold as much dislike me to haue the as yett / to wander to much
abroad ./ PASTONK,102.081.1738

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the loue of god settell thy minde to continew ther wher most
likelyhood is of most good for thi self : PASTONK,102.081.1739

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
then will I not be agaynst thy cominge home somtime to se thy $frindes
<em> . PASTONK,102.081.1740

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and </em> if soon affter Easter $thow sholdest make a iorny . I will
not be agaynst it . PASTONK,102.081.1741

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but doe not com to tary longe . but neer whittsontid :/
PASTONK,102.081.1742

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this is my minde and desyre . PASTONK,102.081.1743

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope it shall well sute with thyne ./ PASTONK,102.081.1744

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had thought to haue written to mr Roberts at this time .
PASTONK,102.081.1745

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my neec Betty haue $prevented me . with her pleasinge Company :.
PASTONK,102.081.1746

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I am faynt to take the oppertunyty of diner time to wright this too
the -/ PASTONK,102.081.1747

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell good will : PASTONK,102.081.1748

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the lorde increase in the all mercys and grases to thy liues end
:/ PASTONK,102.081.1749

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me too thy good tutor PASTONK,102.081.1750

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17?
LETTER:PASTONK_081:E2:1627?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge moother KP_NPR :/ PASTONK,102.081.1751

<Q_PAK_A_1627_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_082>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_102>

{ED:84_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:3_May_1627}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William Paston these at Corpus Christie Colledge
Cambridge PASTONK,102.082.1752

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the Lorde in mercy blese the bothe now and ever .
PASTONK,102.082.1753

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue receiued thy kinde and louinge lines full of dutifull respect
towards me . PASTONK,102.082.1754

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trust god will giue the his grase that thow shallt not only
intende to doe well : but allso haue power to parforme thy good
intencions . which vnfaynedly pray for . PASTONK,102.082.1755

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I desire but thy patience whill I tell the of any thinge that shall be
for thy good :/ PASTONK,102.082.1756

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and howsoever it semes harsh for the prescent to heer of reproffe yett
knowinge my loue and duty towards you : I can not , nay I maye not ;
but cownsell the in every waye that may further the wellfare bothe-5 of
thy body and mynde . PASTONK,102.082.1757

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so shallte thow truly finde that I couete nothinge of thyne : but
thy selfe and beste good for thy sowl and bodys helthe :/
PASTONK,102.082.1758

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the News heer is a Good deall better for the fleet . then was that
which was stiringe at thy goinge away . PASTONK,102.082.1759

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther are neer sayll of Northe sea and castle men com saffe to yarmouth
PASTONK,102.082.1760

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther was a littell lose 3 or 4 shipes , by on dunkirke .
PASTONK,102.082.1761

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that is all which is now talket ofe :/ sinc which time ther haue
not bine a dunkerke seen in our Coastes . PASTONK,102.082.1762

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but heer ar two hollande men of ware braue ships exelent well provided
of great ordinanc and as it is sayd men a peec in them .
PASTONK,102.082.1763

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
these scoore our seae . PASTONK,102.082.1764

<P_103>

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wear a good whill taken for dunkirks . PASTONK,103.082.1765

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thay are true frindes to our coastes . PASTONK,103.082.1766

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this is the laste news as newe as this day :/ PASTONK,103.082.1767

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray the remember me very kindly to thy good tutore
PASTONK,103.082.1768

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thanke him for his fratty Allmynaks PASTONK,103.082.1769

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will wright to hime ere longe if god lett me not :
PASTONK,103.082.1770

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so for this time farwell my good will : PASTONK,103.082.1771

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this 3. of maye 1627 :/ PASTONK,103.082.1772

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_082:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by thy truly louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,103.082.1773

<Q_PAK_A_1627_FN_KPASTON> <L_PASTONK_083>
<A_KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER>
<A-DOB_1578> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_VI> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON>
<R-DOB_1610>

<P_103>

{ED:85_LADY_KATHERINE_PASTON_TO_WILLIAM_PASTON}

{ED:July_1627}

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my most deer sonne William paston these at Corpus Christie Colledge
Cambridg PASTONK,103.083.1774

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My good chilld the mercy of god be ever with you : PASTONK,103.083.1775

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and defende you from all evell : PASTONK,103.083.1776

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue now sente for you home , PASTONK,103.083.1777

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye god blese you in euery good coorse if you will be of a patient
minde , and giue eare to instruction . PASTONK,103.083.1778

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you shall know , that your company shall euer be most acseptable to me
PASTONK,103.083.1779

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I must deall playnly with you for your good PASTONK,103.083.1780

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know youthe seekethe to soon affter to much libertye .
PASTONK,103.083.1781

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you shall not wante that which is enowgh of it allways provided sumwhat
that dothe concerne your owne good be done :/ PASTONK,103.083.1782

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send thus soon that you maye bethinke you of sendinge home your
trunks and other things by norwich Carts when thay be at baberham .
PASTONK,103.083.1783

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you may leaue your chamber hanged if your tutor will acsept of them
PASTONK,103.083.1784

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lett him haue them PASTONK,103.083.1785

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
likewis your bedsted and curtins the chayer and stools to it you maye
if you will leaue them to him , if he will haue or regard them .
PASTONK,103.083.1786

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the featherbed bowlster and the rest you may bringe with you or
send them home I meane - PASTONK,103.083.1787

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I know he had a bed befor you came . PASTONK,103.083.1788

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thinke not so good a bedsted : PASTONK,103.083.1789

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you are cleer from oweinge any thinge to any body .
PASTONK,103.083.1790

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know not how your li howld out . PASTONK,103.083.1791

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bringe all your linnins sheets and other though fowll and cleane :
PASTONK,103.083.1792

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
remember me to the good docter PASTONK,103.083.1793

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forgett not to thanke hime from me for all his kindnes to the :
PASTONK,103.083.1794

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
farwell my good chilld . PASTONK,103.083.1795

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the lord in mercy send the a prosperous Iorny hom : and well to be heer
: PASTONK,103.083.1796

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so farwell onc agavne in all haste : PASTONK,103.083.1797

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Friday PASTONK,103.083.1798

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thy most louinge mother Katherine Paston PASTONK,103.083.1799

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the rest you shall heer by tom Harston , if I thinke of any more
PASTONK,103.083.1800

AUTHOR:KATHERINE_PASTON[N.KNYVETT]:FEMALE:MOTHER:1578:49
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_VI:MALE:SON:1610:17
LETTER:PASTONK_083:E2:1627:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as yett I remember not :/ PASTONK,103.083.1801
