<B_PASTON>

<Q_PAS_A_1425_T_W1PASTON> <L_PASTON_001> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378> <R_JOHN_STAYNFORD>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,1>

{ED:1._TO_JOHN_STAYNFORD:DRAFT_1425}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sount duez a mon sir Will Bardolf de sez gages en lez lyuere`s a Caleys
de mon treshonnure` sir le Count de Warrewyk , capitayn illeoqes ,
jusqes al iiij=te= iour de fevrier l'an de Roy Henri Sysme tierce
ccccxiij li. xvj s. x d. q=a= . PASTON,I,1.001.1

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my weel beloued John Staynford of Furnyvales Inne . PASTON,I,1.001.2

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te instruccion to comune of to John Robynson of Carleton bysyde Snayth
. $To enquerre and wyte whether +te stoon may be sawed or nought , and
whether it wille chippe or chynne or affraye with frost or weder or
water . PASTON,I,1.001.3

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al-so +tat euery pece of +te stoon be iij foote longe and +tat xv tunne
$tyght of +te stoon be euery stoon weel bedded in-to +te walle and a
foote thikke +tat it ryse in heighte a foote in +te walle , and x
stones of +te stoon must be ij foote brood and at +te leste a foote and
an half thikke . PASTON,I,1.001.4

<P_I,2>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A stoon wil drawe +te wighte of a pipe , as I suppose .
PASTON,I,2.001.5

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+To grete stones and nought +te smallere stones shuld be sawed so +tat
euery pece sawed shuld holde +te seid lengthe of iij foote and +te seid
brede of ij foote , and to be , after it is sawed , half a fote or
lesse on thikkenesse ; PASTON,I,2.001.6

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thenne +to brode sawed stones shulde euere stonde in +te werk
betwen +te seid weel bedded stonys +tat shuld rise but a fote in +te
walle and ben ankered iche of hem with other ; PASTON,I,2.001.7

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +tis werk shal be strong j-nowe , as werkmen seyn , and drawe but
litill cariage . PASTON,I,2.001.8

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold haue swiche stoon a xx=ti= tunne tight caried to Moneslee in
Norffolk , betwen Crowmere and Bromholm and but a myle fro Bromholm .
PASTON,I,2.001.9

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To reporte plein answere of this bylle writen and how sone I myght haue
the seid stoon caried to Monesle` a-forn seid , and for what price .
PASTON,I,2.001.10

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Tis werk is for a myll . PASTON,I,2.001.11

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STAYNFORD:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_001:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$per W. Paston PASTON,I,2.001.12

<Q_PAS_A_1425_T_W1PASTON> <L_PASTON_002> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_8>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,2>

{ED:2._TO_AN_UNIDENTIFIED_LAWYER_IN_ROME:DRAFT_1425,_5_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Do writen ij copies of +tis note in papier wyde writen ,
PASTON,I,2.002.13

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gete a copie of +te writte in +te Eschekyr ageyn yow .
PASTON,I,2.002.14

<P_I,3>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worthy and worshepefull ser , I recomaunde me to yow
PASTON,I,3.002.15

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thank yow for +te good , trew , and diligent labour ye haue hadde
for +te matier betwen +te Priour of Bromholm and his commoigne apostata
John Wortes , +tat namyth hym-self Paston and affermith hym vntrewely
to be my cousyn . PASTON,I,3.002.16

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God defende +tat any of my pouere kyn shuld be of swych gouernaunce as
he is of . PASTON,I,3.002.17

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maister John Ixworth told me +tat he hadde lettres fro a frend of
yowres in +te court of Rome +tat is of +te seyd Prioures counseill in
+tis mater as ye be , whos name I knowe nought , specifyeng +tat +te
seyd John Wortes , aduersarius Prioris , desperat in causa et
concordiam querit . PASTON,I,3.002.18

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is told me sithen +tat +te seyd John Wortes is in +te $court of Rome
sacred a bysshop of Irland , videlicet episcopus Corcagensis ; wherby
it is seyd here +tat his pretense of his title to +te priourie of
Bromholm is adnulled and voide in yowr lawe . PASTON,I,3.002.19

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te seyd John Wortes and a $contre`man of myn in +te seyd court ,
Maister John Vrry , haue sent me lettres wher-of I send yow copies and
a trewe instruccion of +te seyd matier closed with +tis bille , +te
whiche lettres and +te matier ther-of me semyth meruaillous and
straunge . PASTON,I,3.002.20

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A prest of Norffolk +tat spak with yow in Jull or August last passed
told me +tat he yede with yow to +te cardinales hous Trikaricensis to
espie if any swych processe were sued ageyn me as +te seyd lettres
specifien , and +tat ye told +te same prest at alle tymes +ter was +tan
no swich processe sued ne had ; +te which relacion I trust and beleue
bettre +tan +te seyd lettres . PASTON,I,3.002.21

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue , by aduys of counseill , in makyng a procuracie ad agendum
defendendum prouocandum et appellandum to yow and +te seyd Maister John
Vrry and +te Wynsolaw de Swysco , and also a general appelle +te
engrossyng of wych +te messager of this bill myght nought abide ; +te
which procuracie and appelle I shal sende to yowr persone tantumodo
with moneye onward on trust . PASTON,I,3.002.22

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My wille is ye haue +te chief gouernaunce of +tis matier and +tat +tis
article be counseill ; $wher-vpon I prey yow <P_I,4> hertily to be
saddely auysed in +tese matieres and , as nede is , so to gouerne hem
by yowr wysdam +tat +te seyd Prioures estat and honeste` , and myn also
, to yowr worshepe be saued , and +tat in alle hast resonable ye lyke
to sende me rede` lettres of alle +te seyd matier and +te circumstances
ther-of , and whou ye wil I be gouerned in +tis mater .
PASTON,I,4.002.23

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was neuere somouned PASTON,I,4.002.24

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne neuer hadde tydynges of +tis matier but by seyd lettres and other
fleyng tales +tat I haue herd sithen , PASTON,I,4.002.25

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne neuere hadde to do more with +te seyd John Wortes +tan is specified
in +te seyd instruccion . PASTON,I,4.002.26

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Al-myghty God haue yow in his gouernaunce . PASTON,I,4.002.27

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at London +te v day of Nouembre . PASTON,I,4.002.28

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_8:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_002:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowre frend and vnknowen PASTON,I,4.002.29

<Q_PAS_A_1425_T_W1PASTON> <L_PASTON_003> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378> <R_JOHN_URRY> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,4>

{ED:3._PROBABLY_TO_MASTER_JOHN_URRY:DRAFT_1425,_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worthy and worshepefull ser , I recomaunde $me to yow , preyeng
yow to wite +tat I haue resceyued yowr goodly lettres makyng mencion
+tat Ser John Paston vt asserit hath optyned me condempnyd to hym in
ccc marcz and c s. and +tat +te same John , atte reuerence of yowr
right worthy persone , hath cesed of his sute of certeins processes
ageyns me vp-on +te seyd condempnacion , takyng continuance of +te same
matier vn-to Cristemasse next comyng ; by whiche lettres ye conseille
me to make ende with +te seyd John ne deterius inde contingat .
PASTON,I,4.003.30

<P_I,5>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I send yow closed with this bille copie of vn frendly lettre +tat +te
seyd John hath sent to me late touchant +te same matier .
PASTON,I,5.003.31

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te seyd Priour hath sent also to yow and to Mayster Will Swan , which
longe tyme hath be his procuratour , a procuracie for my persone and v
marcz of moneye onward . Wher-vp in +te seyd Prioures name and in myn
owyn also I prey yow hertily to sette al these matieres in continuaunce
vn-to yowr comyng in-to Ingeland , PASTON,I,5.003.32

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and be-cause ye arn here beneficed , owr cuntre`man , and of worshepe
and cunnyng worthyly endowed , +te seyd Priour , his brether , and I
also willen gladdely in these matieres be treted by yow ;
PASTON,I,5.003.33

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if +tis mesure be accepted and we may haue knowyng here ther-of ,
it shal cause +te attemptacion of diuerses matieres a-geyn summe
frendes of +te seyd John to cese . PASTON,I,5.003.34

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if +tis continuance be refused I prey yow with al my power +tat of
yowr wysdom and good discrecion ye wille in +te seyd Prioures name and
myn defenden +te seyd sutes , and alle other +tat +te seyd John sueth
a-geyn +te seyd Priour and me , in yowr best maner , and to be of owr
counseill in +tese matieres ; and as ye lyke resonablely to write to vs
so we wil be gouerned in yowr rewarde and al other circumstaunces of
+te same matieres . PASTON,I,5.003.35

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I conceyve by yowr seyd lettres +tat +te grete of +te matier conteigned
in +te same ye haue of +te informacion and assercion of +te seyd John ,
and as he hath enformed yow I wot weel ye trewely writen ;
PASTON,I,5.003.36

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I hope and trust verrayly +te matier of his informacion is vntrewe
. PASTON,I,5.003.37

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te Priour of Bromholm sued a-geyn +te seyd John and other in Ingeland
a wryt of premunire facias , PASTON,I,5.003.38

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I was ther-in of +te same Prioures conseill , as +te lawe of
Ingelond and myn office willen , PASTON,I,5.003.39

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and more I haue nought hadde to do with +te seyd John ;
PASTON,I,5.003.40

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I can nought beleue +tat in +tis cas +te same John myght by yowr
lawe any swich sute haue ageyn me as yowr lettre specifieth .
PASTON,I,5.003.41

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_URRY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_003:M3:1425:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also Will , +te prest specified in yowr $lettre , told me +tat he ,
after +tat ye told hym of +tis matier lyke as ye $write , he comuned
with Maister Will Swan , and he told +te seyd prest +ter $was no
processe in +te courte ageyn me in no maner . PASTON,I,5.003.42

<Q_PAS_A_1426_T_W1PASTON> <L_PASTON_004> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378> <R_WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,6>

{ED:4._WILLIAM_WORSTEDE,_JOHN_LONGHAM,_PIERS_SHELTON_1426,_1_MARCH}_ @

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A mez treshonnure`s meistres William Worstede , John Longham , et
Meistre Piers Shelton soit donne` . PASTON,I,6.004.43

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worthy and worshepefull seres and maistres , I recomand me to yow
PASTON,I,6.004.44

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thank yow with al my herte of +te gret tendrenesse ye lyke to haue
of +te saluacion of my symple honeste` , preyng yow euermore of yowr
good continuance . PASTON,I,6.004.45

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue , after +te aduys of yowr lettre , doon dwely examyned +te
jnstrument by +te wysest I coude fynde here , and in especial by on
Maister Robert Sutton , a courtezane of +te court of Rome , +te which
is +te chief and most chier man with my lord of Gloucestre and his
matier in +te seyd court for my lady his wyff . PASTON,I,6.004.46

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And here aunswere is +tat al +tis processe , +tough it were in dede
proceded as +te instrument specifieth , is not suffisant in +te lawe of
Holy Cherche , and +tat hem semyth by +te sight of +te instrument and
by +te defautes $+tat ye espied in +te same and other , and in maner by
+te knowelech of +te notarie , +tat +te processe in gret part ther-of
is <em> false and </em> $vntrewe . PASTON,I,6.004.47

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue taken aduys of Maister Robert Bruus , chaunceller with my lord
of Cantirbury , and Maister Nicholl Billesdon , $chaunceller of my lord
of Wynchestre , and Maister John Blodwelle , a weel lerned man holden
and a suffisant courtezan of +te seyd court ; PASTON,I,6.004.48

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alle +tese acorden to +te seyd Maister Robert Sutton .
PASTON,I,6.004.49

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nought with-stondyng +tat I herde neuere of +tis matier no maner lykly
ne credible euidence vn-to +tat I sey yowr lettre and +te jnstrument ,
yet I made an appell and a procuracie and also a prouocacion at London
longe beforn Cristemasse by +te $aduys of Maister Dauid Aprys , Maister
Symond Kempston , and Maister James Cole , PASTON,I,6.004.50

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent al +tis with an jnstruccion of al +te matier to my
procuratours to Rome by yowr frere my <P_I,7> maister suppriour ,
PASTON,I,7.004.51

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gaff hym gold +tat he was content . PASTON,I,7.004.52

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ouermore now here by aduys I make +tis day a newe apelle and a newe
procuracie , PASTON,I,7.004.53

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and vp-on +tis alle +te seyd worthy men here seyn and informe me
pleynly I haue no maner cause in lawe ne in conscience to drede aught
in +tis matier . PASTON,I,7.004.54

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Myn aduersarie is become bysshop of Cork in Irland , PASTON,I,7.004.55

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther arn ij other persones prouided to +te same bysshopriche yet
lyuyng beforn my seyd aduersarie ; PASTON,I,7.004.56

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by this acceptacion of +tis bysshopriche he hath pryued hym-self of
+te title +tat he claymed in Bromholm , and so adnulled +te ground of
his processe a-geyn me . PASTON,I,7.004.57

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also +te tyme of his greuaunce pretendid and +te tyme of his sute
he was apostata , and I trowe is yet , and so vnable to sue any swich
processe . PASTON,I,7.004.58

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I purpose me to come homward be London to lerne more in +tis matier if
I may . PASTON,I,7.004.59

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I prey +te Holy Trinite` , lord of yowr cherche and of alle +te werld ,
delyuere me of my iij aduersaries , of +tis cursed bysshop for Bromholm
, Aslak for Sprouston , and Julian Herberd for Thornham .
PASTON,I,7.004.60

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue nought trespassed a-geyn noon of these iij , God knowith ,
PASTON,I,7.004.61

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet I am foule and noysyngly vexed with hem to my gret vnease , and
al for my lordes and frendes matieres and nought for myn owyn .
PASTON,I,7.004.62

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wot not whether it were best in any sermon or other audience in yowr
cherche or elles-where to declare ought of +tis matier in stoppyng of
+te noyse +tat renneth in +tis case . PASTON,I,7.004.63

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I submitte me and alle +tis matier to yowr good discrecion ,
PASTON,I,7.004.64

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and euere gremercy God and ye , who euere haue yow and me in his
gracious gouernaunce . PASTON,I,7.004.65

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I suppose to se yow on Palme Sunday . PASTON,I,7.004.66

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at Leycestre +te Friday +te thredde wyke of Lente .
PASTON,I,7.004.67

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Alle +te seyd lerned men telle me trewely +ter is nother perill ne
doute in +te takyng doun of +te instrument and +te bille to no creature
, which so jnstrument and bille I send yow a-geyn by +te berare of this
, which I prey yow to kepe as pryue` as ye may . PASTON,I,7.004.68

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue preyed my maister Hamond to write yow tydyngges and smale
lesynges among . PASTON,I,7.004.69

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WORSTEDE_&:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_004:M3:1426:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr man , W. Paston PASTON,I,7.004.70

<Q_PAS_AC_1430?_T_W1PASTON> <L_PASTON_005> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_9>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,13>

{ED:6._THE_VICAR_OF_THE_ABBOT_OF_CLUNY:DRAFT_PROBABLY_1430,_APRIL}_C
ODE

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:52?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_9:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_005:M4:1430?:AC:OTHER
My ryghte worthy and worshepeful lord , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,I,13.005.71

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:52?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_9:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_005:M4:1430?:AC:OTHER
And for as meche as I conseyue verrayly +tat ye arn vicar general in
Inggelond of +te worthy prelate +te Abbot of Clunie , and have hys
powre in many grete articles , and a-mong other in $profession of
monkes in Inggelond of +te seyd ordere . And in my cuntre` , but a myle
fro +te place where I was born , is +te povre hous of Bromholm of +te
same ordre , in wheche arn diuers vertuous yongge men , monkes clad and
vn-professyd , +tat have abedyn +tere $wythowt abbyte ix or x yeere ,
and be lenger delaye of here profession many inconuenientez arn lyke to
falle . And also +te Priour of <em> +te seyd hous </em> hath resigned
in-to yowre worthy handes by certeins notables and resonables causes ,
as it apperyth by an instrument and a symple lettre vnder +te comune
seal of +te seyd hous of Bromholm , which +te berare of this hath redy
to shewe yow . Wher-vp-on I prey yow wyt al my herte , and as I euere
may do yow seruice , +tat it lyke to yowr grace to graunte of yowr
charite` by yowre worthy lettres to +te Priour of Thetford in Norffolk
, of +te seyde ordre of Clunye , autorite` and powere as yowr ministre
and depute` , to professe in dwe forme +te seyd monkes of Bromholm
vn-professed ; and +tat it lyke yow ouermore to accepte and admitte +te
seyd resygnacion by yowr seyd autorite` and powere wyth +te <P_I,14>
fauour of yowr good lordshepe , in confort and consolacion of yowr
pouere prestes +te monkes of +te seyd hous of Bromholm ; and ther-vp to
graunte yowr worthy lettres wittenessyng +te same acceptacion and
admyssion of +te seyd resignacion , and al yowr seid lettres to
delyuere to my clerk , to wham I prey yow to gyve feith and credence
touchant +tis matier , and to delyuere hym in alle +te hast resonable .
PASTON,I,14.005.72

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:52?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_9:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_005:M4:1430?:AC:OTHER
And I am yowr man and euere will be , by +te grace of God , which euere
haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,14.005.73

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:52?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_9:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_005:M4:1430?:AC:OTHER
Writen at Norwich +te {ED:LEFT_BLANK} of Aprill . PASTON,I,14.005.74

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:52?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_9:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_005:M4:1430?:AC:OTHER
Yowres , William Paston PASTON,I,14.005.75

<Q_PAS_C_1440?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_006> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_I,26>

{ED:13._TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1440,_20_APRIL}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my worshepefull housbond W. Paston be +tis lettere takyn .
</font> PASTON,I,26.006.76

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dere housbond , I recomaunde me to yow , &c . PASTON,I,26.006.77

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Blyssyd be God , I sende yow gode tydynggys of +te comyng and +te
brynggyn hoom of +te gentylwomman +tat ye wetyn of fro Redham +tis same
nyght , acordyng to poyntmen +tat ye made +ter-for yowre-self .
PASTON,I,26.006.78

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te furste aqweyntaunce be-twhen John Paston and +te seyde
gentilwomman , she made hym gentil chere in gyntyl wyse
PASTON,I,26.006.79

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyde he was verrayly yowre son . PASTON,I,26.006.80

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I hope +ter shal nede no gret trete` be-twyxe hym .
PASTON,I,26.006.81

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te parson of Stocton toold me yif ye wolde byin here a goune , here
moder wolde yeue ther-to a godely furre . PASTON,I,26.006.82

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te goune nedyth for to be had , PASTON,I,26.006.83

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and of coloure it wolde be a godely blew or ellys a bryghte sanggueyn .
PASTON,I,26.006.84

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow do byen for me ij pypys of gold . PASTON,I,26.006.85

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowre stewes do weel . PASTON,I,26.006.86

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trinite` have yow in gouernaunce . PASTON,I,26.006.87

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Paston in hast +te Wednesday next after Deus qui errantibus ,
for defaute of a good secretarye , &c . PASTON,I,26.006.88

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1378:62?
LETTER:PASTON_006:M4:1440?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowres , Agnes Paston PASTON,I,26.006.89

<Q_PAS_C_1445_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_007> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDMOND_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1425>

<P_I,27>

{ED:14._TO_EDMOND_PASTON_I_1445,_4_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Edmond Paston of Clyffordis Inne in London be this lettre
take . </font> PASTON,I,27.007.90

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To myn welbelouid sone . PASTON,I,27.007.91

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete yow wel , PASTON,I,27.007.92

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and avyse yow to thynkke onis of the daie of yowre fadris counseyle to
lerne the lawe ; PASTON,I,27.007.93

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyde manie tymis that ho so euer schuld dwelle at Paston
schulde have nede to conne defende hymselfe . PASTON,I,27.007.94

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The vikarie of Paston and yowre fadre , in Lenttyn laste was , wher
thorwe and acordidde , and doolis sette howe broode the weye schuld ben
; PASTON,I,27.007.95

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and nowe he hathe pullid vppe the doolis PASTON,I,27.007.96

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seithe he wolle makyn a dyche fro the cornere of his walle ry+ght
overe the weye to the newe diche of the grete cloose .
PASTON,I,27.007.97

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And there is a man in Truntche hy+ght Palmere to , +tat hadde of yowre
fadre certein londe in Truntche on vij yere ore viij yere agoone for
corn , PASTON,I,27.007.98

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and trwli hathe paide all the yeris ; PASTON,I,27.007.99

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now he hathe suffrid the corne to ben with-sette for viij s. of
rentte to Gymmyngham , wich yowre fadre paide nevere .
PASTON,I,27.007.100

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Geffreie axid Palmere why the rentte was notte axid in myn husbonddis
tyme , PASTON,I,27.007.101

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Palmere seyde , for he was a grete man and a wyse man of the lawe ,
PASTON,I,27.007.102

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that was the cawse men wolde not axe hym the rentte .
PASTON,I,27.007.103

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende yow the namis of the men that kaste down the pittis that was
Gynnis Close wretyn in a bille closid in this lettre .
PASTON,I,27.007.104

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sendde yow not this lettre to make yow wery of Paston ,
PASTON,I,27.007.105

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I leve in hoope ; PASTON,I,27.007.106

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye wolle lerne that they schulle be made werye of here werke ,
PASTON,I,27.007.107

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore in good feyth I dare wel seyne it was yowre fadris laste wille to
have do ry+ght wel to that plase , PASTON,I,27.007.108

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that can I schewe of good prefe , thowe men wolde seye naye .
PASTON,I,27.007.109

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God make yow ry+ght a good man , PASTON,I,27.007.110

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende Goddis blessyng and myn . PASTON,I,27.007.111

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrettyn in haste at Norwich the Thorsdaie aftir Candelmasse Daie .
PASTON,I,27.007.112

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wetith of yowre brothere John how manie gystis wolle serve the parlour
and the chapelle at Paston , and what lenghthe they moste be and
<P_I,28> what brede and thykkenesse thei moste be ; PASTON,I,28.007.113

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for yowre fadris wille was , as I weene veryli , that thei schuld be ix
enchis on wey and vij another weye , PASTON,I,28.007.114

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pourveiithe therfore that thei mow be squarid there and sentte
hedre , PASTON,I,28.007.115

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for here can non soche be hadde in this conttre` . PASTON,I,28.007.116

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And seye to yowre brothir John it weere wel don to thinkke on Stansted
chirche ; PASTON,I,28.007.117

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I praye yow to sende me tydynggis from be-yond see ,
PASTON,I,28.007.118

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for here thei arn aferde to telle soche as be reportid .
PASTON,I,28.007.119

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1425:20
LETTER:PASTON_007:M4:1445:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yowre modre Angneis Paston PASTON,I,28.007.120

<Q_PAS_C_1440S_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_008> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,30>

{ED:18._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_NOT_AFTER_1449}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston be +tis letter delyueryd . </font>
PASTON,I,30.008.121

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Soon , I grete +gow wel wyth Goddys blyssyng and myn ;
PASTON,I,30.008.122

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I latte +gow wette +tat my cosyn Clere wrytted to me +tat sche
spake wyth Schrowpe aftyre +tat he had byen wyth me at Norwyche , and
tolde here what chere +tat I had made hym ; PASTON,I,30.008.123

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyde to here he lyked wel by +te chere +tat I made hym .
PASTON,I,30.008.124

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He had swyche wordys to my cosyn Clere +tat lesse +tan +ge made hym
good chere and +gaf hym wordys of conforth at London he wolde no more
speke of +te matyre . PASTON,I,30.008.125

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosyn Clere thynkyth +tat it were a foly to forsake hym lesse +tan
+ge knew of on owdyre as good ore bettere , PASTON,I,30.008.126

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue assayde +gowre sustere PASTON,I,30.008.127

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fonde here neuer so wylly to noon as sche is to hym , +gyf it be
so +tat his londe stande cleere . PASTON,I,30.008.128

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent +gow a letter by Brawnton fore sylke and fore +tis matyre
be-fore my cosyn Clere wrote to me , +te qwyche was wrytten on +te
Wednysday <P_I,31> nex+gt aftyre Mydsomere Day . PASTON,I,31.008.129

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser Herry Ynglows is ry+gth besy a-bowt Schrowpe fore on of his
do+gthteres . PASTON,I,31.008.130

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey +gow fore-+gette no+gth to brynge me my mony fro Horwelbery as
+ge com fro London , edyre all ore a grete parte . PASTON,I,31.008.131

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te dew dette was at Crystemesse last paste , no thynge a-lowyd , vij
li. xiiij s. viij d. , PASTON,I,31.008.132

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at +tis Mydsomere it is v li. more ; PASTON,I,31.008.133

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thow I a-low hym all his askyng it is but xxvj s. vj d. lesse ,
PASTON,I,31.008.134

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am no+gth so avysyth +gytt . PASTON,I,31.008.135

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore +te frere , he hath byen at Sent Benettys and at Norwyche , and
made grete bowste of +te sewte +tat he hath a-+gens me , and bow+gthe
many boxes , PASTON,I,31.008.136

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to what jntent I wett neuer . PASTON,I,31.008.137

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is well doen to be ware at London in drede +gyf he bryng ony syse at
Sent Margaretys tyme . PASTON,I,31.008.138

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I kan no more , PASTON,I,31.008.139

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Almy+gty God be owre good lorde , who have +gow euer in kepyng .
PASTON,I,31.008.140

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_008:M4:1440S:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at Oxnede in grete hast on +te $Satyr-day next aftyre Mydsomere
. By +gowre modyre A. P. PASTON,I,31.008.141

<Q_PAS_C_1450?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_009> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,31>

{ED:19._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1450,_18_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> Thys letter be delyuerd to John Paston , dwellyn jn the Indere
In of the Tempyll att London , in hast . </font> PASTON,I,31.009.142

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete yow well , PASTON,I,31.009.143

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete yow wete that thys day I was wyth my doughtyr yor wyfe ,
PASTON,I,31.009.144

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and che was in good hele att the makyn of thys letter , thankyd be God
. PASTON,I,31.009.145

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche lete yor sustyr and me wete of a letter wheche ye sent hyr ,
that ye haue be laboryd to fore Sere William Oldhall to haue your
sustyr and desyryng in the seyd letter to haue an answere in schort
tyme who sche wyll be demenyd in thys matere . PASTON,I,31.009.146

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yor sustere recomaundyt hyr to yow , PASTON,I,31.009.147

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thankyt yow hertyly that ye wyll remembyre hyr and lete <P_I,32>
hyr haue knowleche there-of ; PASTON,I,32.009.148

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and preyt yow that ye wyll do your deuere to bryng it to a good
conclusyon , PASTON,I,32.009.149

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore sche seythe to me that sche trystyt +tat ye wyll do so that it
xall be bothe-1 fore hyr worchup and profyt . PASTON,I,32.009.150

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore me , if ye can thynke that hys lond standyt clere , in as
meche as I fele your sustyr well wyllyd there-to I hold me well content
. PASTON,I,32.009.151

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore the oblygacyon of the person of Marlynferthe , wheche I
sent yow by John Newman , I prey yow lete it be suyd ;
PASTON,I,32.009.152

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as fore the person and Lyndesey , they be acordyd .
PASTON,I,32.009.153

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And God haue yow in kepyn PASTON,I,32.009.154

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow hys blyssyn and myn . PASTON,I,32.009.155

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_009:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche on Puluer Wedenesday . Be yor modere Angnes Paston
PASTON,I,32.009.156

<Q_PAS_C_1450?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_010> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,32>

{ED:20._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1450,_11_MARCH}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , dwellyn in the Inder In of the Tempyll att
London , be thys letter delyuerd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,32.010.157

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Son , I grete yow PASTON,I,32.010.158

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow Goddys blyssyng and myn ; PASTON,I,32.010.159

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for my doughtyr your wyfe , che faryt well , blyssyd be God , as
a woman in hyr plyte may do , and all your sonys and doughtrys .
PASTON,I,32.010.160

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for as meche as ye wyll send me no tydyngys , I send yow seche as
ben in thys contre` . PASTON,I,32.010.161

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rychard Lynsted cam thys day fro Paston , PASTON,I,32.010.162

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and letyt me wete that on Saturday last past Drawale , halfe brothere
to Waryn Harman , was takyn wyth enemyis walkyn be the se syde
PASTON,I,32.010.163

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue hym forthe wyth hem ; PASTON,I,32.010.164

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they tokyn ij pylgremys , a man and a woman , PASTON,I,32.010.165

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they robbyd the woman PASTON,I,32.010.166

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete hyr gon PASTON,I,32.010.167

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ledde the man to the see , PASTON,I,32.010.168

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whan they knew he was a pylgreme they geffe hym money
PASTON,I,32.010.169

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sett hym ageyn on the lond . PASTON,I,32.010.170

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And they haue thys weke takyn iiij vessellys of Wyntyrton and
Happysborough , PASTON,I,32.010.171

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Ecles men ben sore aferd for takyn of mo , PASTON,I,32.010.172

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for there ben x grete vessellys of the enemyis . PASTON,I,32.010.173

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God yeue grace that the see may be bettere kepte than it is now ,
PASTON,I,32.010.174

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys it chall ben a perlyous dwellyng be the se cost .
PASTON,I,32.010.175

<P_I,33>

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow grete well your brethyrne , PASTON,I,33.010.176

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sey hem that I send hem Goddys blyssyn and myn ;
PASTON,I,33.010.177

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sey William that , if Jenett Lanton be nott payd for the krymsyn
cors wheche Alson Crane wrote to hyr fore in hyr owyn name , that than
he pay hyr and see Alson Cranys name strekyn owt of hyr boke ,
PASTON,I,33.010.178

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for che seythe che wyll aske no man the money butt Alson Crane .
PASTON,I,33.010.179

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I prey yow that ye wyll remembyr the letter that I sent yow last ;
PASTON,I,33.010.180

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and God be wyth yow . PASTON,I,33.010.181

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_010:M4:1450?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche the Wedenesday next before Sent Gregory . Be yor
modere Angnes Paston PASTON,I,33.010.182

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_011> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,33>

{ED:21._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451,_12_MAY}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston be thys byll delyuerd in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,33.011.183

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spacke thys day wyth a man of Paston syde , PASTON,I,33.011.184

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me that a man of Paston told hym that Paston men wold nott
goo presessyon ferther than the chyrche-yerde on Sent Markys Day ,
PASTON,I,33.011.185

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyd the presessyon wey was stoppyd in , PASTON,I,33.011.186

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd wyth-in chort tyme men hopyd that the wall chuld <P_I,34> be
broke doun a-geyn . PASTON,I,34.011.187

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he seyd that I was amercyid for stoppyng of the seyd $wey att
the last generall court , PASTON,I,34.011.188

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
butt he cowd not tell who meche the mercyment was ; PASTON,I,34.011.189

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he that told it me askyd the man that told it hym if he had the
mercyment in hys exstrete for to dystreyn there-fore ;
PASTON,I,34.011.190

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd nay , PASTON,I,34.011.191

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but seyd he that chuld do it chuld bettyr dor take it up-on hym than he
chuld . PASTON,I,34.011.192

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the same man told me that he mett wyth a man of Blyclyng hyght
Barkere , that cam late fro London , PASTON,I,34.011.193

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told hym that I had a sute att London ageyn Waryn Herman of
Paston , PASTON,I,34.011.194

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd that Roberd Branton was hys attornye PASTON,I,34.011.195

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd he seygh hym ryght besy for hym att London .
PASTON,I,34.011.196

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for-yete not yor sustyr , PASTON,I,34.011.197

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and God haue yow in kepyng . PASTON,I,34.011.198

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_011:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche the xij day of May . Be yor modyr A. Paston
PASTON,I,34.011.199

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_012> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,34>

{ED:22._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Meye Barkere of Synt Clementys parys in Norwych , to delyuer
to my master John Paston in haste . </font> PASTON,I,34.012.200

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On Thurisday +te wall was mad +garde hey ; PASTON,I,34.012.201

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a good wylle be-fore euyn it reyned so sore +tat +tey were fayne to
helle +te wall and leue werke , PASTON,I,34.012.202

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te water is fallyn so sore +tat it standyt ondyre +te wall a fote
deppe to Ballys warde . PASTON,I,34.012.203

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Fryday after sakeryng on come fro cherch warde
PASTON,I,34.012.204

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schoffe doune all +tat was +tere-on PASTON,I,34.012.205

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and trad on +te wall PASTON,I,34.012.206

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and brake sum PASTON,I,34.012.207

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wente ouer . PASTON,I,34.012.208

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I can not +get wete hoo it was . PASTON,I,34.012.209

<P_I,35>

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Warne Kyngys wyfe , as she went ouer +te style , she cursyd Ball
PASTON,I,35.012.210

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyde +tat he had +geuyn aweye +te waye , PASTON,I,35.012.211

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so it preuyt be John Paston is wordys ; PASTON,I,35.012.212

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and after , Kyngys folke and odyr come PASTON,I,35.012.213

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and cryid on Annes Ball , seying to here +te same . PASTON,I,35.012.214

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gystyrneuyn wan I $xuld goo to my bede +te vycare seyde +tat Warne
Kyng and Warne Harman be-twyxte messe and matynsse toke Ser Roberd in
+te vestry and bad hym sey to me verely +te wall xullde doun a-gayne ;
PASTON,I,35.012.215

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wan +te vycore tolde me I wyste +tere-of no worde , nor +get do ,
be Ser Roberde , PASTON,I,35.012.216

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he syth he were loth to make any stryfe . PASTON,I,35.012.217

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wan I cam out of +te cherch Roberd Emundys schewyd me how I was
a-mercyde for seute of corte +te laste +gere vj d. ,
PASTON,I,35.012.218

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd it was xij d. tylle Warne Kyng and he gat it awey vj d .
PASTON,I,35.012.219

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send +gou word how John Jamys was de-menyd at Cromere , to send to
Jamys Gressham how he xall be de-menyd . PASTON,I,35.012.220

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Gaffrey Benchard and Alexander Glouer , heywardys , tokyn a dystresse
of John Jamys on +te bond tenement of A. Paston calde Reynaldys in
Cromer +te xxviij=ti= +gere of +tys kyng , PASTON,I,35.012.221

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and W. Goodwyn , baly of Cromer , wyth +te seyd J. Jamys wyth forsse
toke awey +te dysstres , wech was ij horsse and a plowe .
PASTON,I,35.012.222

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Good be wyth +gou . PASTON,I,35.012.223

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_012:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be Annes Paston +goure modyr PASTON,I,35.012.224

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_013> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,35>

{ED:23._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451,_8_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , dwyllyng in +te Tempyll at London , be +tis
letter delyuerid in haste . </font> PASTON,I,35.013.225

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I gret +gou well , PASTON,I,35.013.226

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete +gou wete +tat Warne Harman , on +te Sonday after Hallumes Day
after ensong , seyd oponly in +te cherch-+gerde +tat he wyst wyll +tat
and +te wall were $pud $doun {TEXT:puddoun} , +tou he were an hondryd
myle fro Paston , he wyste well +tat I wolde sey he ded yt and he xuld
bere +te blame , seying , ' Telle yte here ho so wyll ,
PASTON,I,35.013.227

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+tou it xuld coste me xx nobyllys it xall be $pud $doun {TEXT:puddoun}
a+gen . ' PASTON,I,35.013.228

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seyd Warnys wyfe wyth a <P_I,36> lovde vosse seyd , ' All +te
deuyllys of hell drawe here sowle to hell for +te weye +tat she hat mad
! ' PASTON,I,36.013.229

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at euyn a sertyn man suppyd wyth me PASTON,I,36.013.230

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tolde me +tat +te patent grantyt to closse but a perch on bred ,
and +tat I had clossyd more +tan +te grant of +te patent is , as men
seyd . PASTON,I,36.013.231

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And John Marchall tolde me +tat +tere was a thryfty woman come forby
+te watteryng and fond +te wey stoppyde , and askyd hym ho had stoppyd
+te weye ; PASTON,I,36.013.232

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd +tey +tat had pore to +geue it , PASTON,I,36.013.233

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and askyd here wat was freere +tan +gyfte . PASTON,I,36.013.234

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she seyd she sey +te day +tat Paston men wold not a sofferyd +tat .
PASTON,I,36.013.235

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And God be wyth +gou . PASTON,I,36.013.236

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_013:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Paston on Monday after Hallumys Day . Be +goure modyr Annes
Paston PASTON,I,36.013.237

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_014> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,36>

{ED:24._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451,_21_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , dwellyng jn te Tempyll at London , be thys
lettere delyuerd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,36.014.238

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete yow well , PASTON,I,36.014.239

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete yow wete that on +te Sonday before Sent Edmond after
euyn-songe Angnes Ball com to me to my closett PASTON,I,36.014.240

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and bad me good euyn , and Clement Spycere wyth hyr .
PASTON,I,36.014.241

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I acsyd hym what he wold , PASTON,I,36.014.242

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he askyd me why I had stoppyd jn +te Kyngys wey ;
PASTON,I,36.014.243

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd to hym I stoppyd no wey butt myn owyn , PASTON,I,36.014.244

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and askyd hym why he had sold my lond to John Ball ;
PASTON,I,36.014.245

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sore he was neuyr a-cordyd wyth your fadyr . PASTON,I,36.014.246

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I told hym if hys fadyr had do as he dede , he wold a be a-chamyd
to a seyd as he seyd . PASTON,I,36.014.247

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And all that tyme Waryn Herman lenyd ouyr +te parklos
PASTON,I,36.014.248

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lystynd whatt we seyd , PASTON,I,36.014.249

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat +te chaunge was a rewly chaunge , PASTON,I,36.014.250

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +te towne was vn-do +tereby PASTON,I,36.014.251

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is +te wersse by an c li. ; PASTON,I,36.014.252

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I told hym it was no curtese` to medyll hym jn a mater butt if he
were callyd to councell . PASTON,I,36.014.253

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And prowdly goyn forthe wyth me jn +te cherche , he seyd the stoppyng
of +te wey xulld coste me xx nobyllys , PASTON,I,36.014.254

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +get it chuld downe ageyn ; PASTON,I,36.014.255

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I lete hym wete he +tat putte it downe chull pay +tere-fore .
PASTON,I,36.014.256

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he seyd +tat it was well don +tat I sett men to werke to owle
money whyll I was <P_I,37> here , PASTON,I,37.014.257

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
butt jn +te ende I chall lese my coste . PASTON,I,37.014.258

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than he askyd me why I had a-wey hys hey at Walsam , seyng to me he
wold he had wyst it whan it was karyyd and he chuld a lettyd it ;
PASTON,I,37.014.259

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I told hym it was myn owyn grownde , PASTON,I,37.014.260

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for myn owyn I wold holde it . PASTON,I,37.014.261

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he bad me take iiij acre and goo no ferthere ; PASTON,I,37.014.262

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thus churtly he departyd fro me jn +te cherche-+gerde .
PASTON,I,37.014.263

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And syt , I spacke wyth a serteyn man PASTON,I,37.014.264

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and acsyd hym if he herd owt sey why +te dynere was mad att Norfolkys
howse ; PASTON,I,37.014.265

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me $he herd sey that serteyn men had sentt to London to
gete a comyssyon owt of +te Chaunstre` to putt downe ageyn +te wall and
+te dyke . PASTON,I,37.014.266

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I receyuyd yor lettere by Robert Reppys thys day after thys letter
wretyn thus fare . PASTON,I,37.014.267

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue red it PASTON,I,37.014.268

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
butt I can yeue yow non aunswere more than I haue wretyn , saue +te
wyfe of Harman hathe +te name of Owre Lady , whos blyssyn ye haue , and
myn . PASTON,I,37.014.269

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_014:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Paston on +te day aftere Sent Edmond . Be yowyr modyr Angnes
Paston PASTON,I,37.014.270

<Q_PAS_C_1452?_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_015> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,37>

{ED:25._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1452,_16_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> This lettre be delyuered to John Paston , beynge at London in
the Innere In of the Temple . </font> PASTON,I,37.015.271

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you well , PASTON,I,37.015.272

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende you Goddes blissyng and myn ; PASTON,I,37.015.273

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as touchyng the mater wheche ye desyryd my cosyn Clere shulde write
fore , she hath doo , PASTON,I,37.015.274

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sende you the copy closed in this lettre . PASTON,I,37.015.275

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the enquerre` I haue sent by Pynchemour to enquere ,
PASTON,I,37.015.276

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent myn owen men to William Bakton PASTON,I,37.015.277

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and don hem enquered in dyuerse places , PASTON,I,37.015.278

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I can here no word of noon suych enquerans . PASTON,I,37.015.279

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wot not what <P_I,38> it menyth . PASTON,I,38.015.280

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Roberd Hill was at Paston this wyke , PASTON,I,38.015.281

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the man that duelled in Bowres place is oute there-of ,
PASTON,I,38.015.282

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seid to Roberd he durst no lenger a-byde there-in
PASTON,I,38.015.283

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Waryn Herman seyth to him it is his place . PASTON,I,38.015.284

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Coketes mater , my doughter youre wif told me yester-even the
man that suyth him will now stonde to youre a-warde .
PASTON,I,38.015.285

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Bertilmow White is condennyd in Fornecet court in xl marc. , as it is
seid . PASTON,I,38.015.286

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for Talfas , the sherevis han be-hest to do all the fauour
thei may . PASTON,I,38.015.287

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sente the parson of Seynt Edmundes to Gilberd , PASTON,I,38.015.288

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seide there was come a newe writ for to haue him vp by the xv
day of Seynt Martyn ; and how Caly hadde ben at hem and desired to
carye vp Talfas on his owen cost and yeue hem goode wages .
PASTON,I,38.015.289

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , John Osbern seide to me this day that he supposed thei will not
haue him vp be-forn Estern , PASTON,I,38.015.290

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Margerete Talfas seide to me the same day that men tolde hire that
he shulde neuer han ende till he were at London , PASTON,I,38.015.291

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and asked me counsell wheder she myte yeue the sherevys syluer or non ,
PASTON,I,38.015.292

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I tolde hire if she dede I supposed she shulde fynde hem the more
frendly . PASTON,I,38.015.293

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for Horwelbury I sende you a bill of all the reseytes syn the
deth of youre fadere , and a copy wrete on the bak how youre fader lete
it to ferme to the seide Gurnay . PASTON,I,38.015.294

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wulde ye shulde write Gurnay and charge him to mete wyth you fro
London warde , and at the lest weye lete him purveye x li. , for owyth
be my reknyng at Myhelmesse last passed , be-syde youre faderes dette ,
xviij li. xiiij s. viij d . PASTON,I,38.015.295

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye wolde write to him to brynge suerte` bo+te-1 for youre faderys
dette and myn , and pay be dayes so +tat the man myte leven and paye vs
, I wolde for-yeue him of the olde arrerages x li. ,
PASTON,I,38.015.296

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he myte be mad to paye xx marc. be yere . PASTON,I,38.015.297

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On that condicion I wolde for-yeuen him x li. , PASTON,I,38.015.298

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so thynketh me he shulde han cause to preye for youre fader and me
, PASTON,I,38.015.299

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was it leten in my faderes tyme . PASTON,I,38.015.300

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fele be Roberd his wif is right loth to gon thens ;
PASTON,I,38.015.301

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
she seide that sche had leuer I shulde haue all here gode after here
day than thei schulde go out there-of . PASTON,I,38.015.302

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , John Dam told me that +te Lady Boys will selle a place called
Halys , PASTON,I,38.015.303

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he seith sche speketh it prevyly PASTON,I,38.015.304

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seith it is not tayled ; PASTON,I,38.015.305

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
as John Dam knoweth will , she hath seide as largely of o+ter thyng
+tat hath not be so . PASTON,I,38.015.306

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he tolde me as he herd seyn Sere John Fastolf hath sold
Heylysdon to Boleyn of London , PASTON,I,38.015.307

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it be so it semeth he will selle more ; wherfore I preye you ,
as ye will haue my loue and my blissyng , +tat ye will helpe and do
youre deuer that sumthyng were purchased for youre ij bretheren .
PASTON,I,38.015.308

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose +tat Ser John Fastolf , and he were spoke to , wolde be
gladere to lete his kensemen han parte than straunge men .
PASTON,I,38.015.309

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Asay him in my name <P_I,39> of suych places as ye suppose is most
clere . PASTON,I,39.015.310

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seid in this contre` +tat my lord of Norfolk seith Sere John
Fastolf hath youen him Castre , and he will han $it pleynly .
PASTON,I,39.015.311

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende you a bill of Osbern hand whech was the ansuere of the sheref
and John of Dam . PASTON,I,39.015.312

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , brynge me my lettre hom with you , and my cosyn Clere is copy of
here lettre and the copy of the reseyth of Horwelbury .
PASTON,I,39.015.313

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And recomaunde me to Lomnour , PASTON,I,39.015.314

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell him his best be-loued fareth well , PASTON,I,39.015.315

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but sche is not yet come to Norwich , PASTON,I,39.015.316

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei deye yet , but not so sore as thei dede . PASTON,I,39.015.317

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And God be wyth you . PASTON,I,39.015.318

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_015:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrete at Norwych in right gret hast the xvj day of Nouembre . By youre
moder Anneys Paston PASTON,I,39.015.319

<Q_PAS_C_1453_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_016> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,39>

{ED:26._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1453,_6_JULY}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my welbelouyd son John Paston . </font> PASTON,I,39.016.320

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sone , I grete yow well PASTON,I,39.016.321

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Godys blyssyng and myn , PASTON,I,39.016.322

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete you wete that Robert Hyll cam homward by Horwelle-bery ;
PASTON,I,39.016.323

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Gurney tellyd hym he had byn at London for mony and kowd not
spedyng , and behestyd Robert that he shuld sende me mony be you .
PASTON,I,39.016.324

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray for-+get yt not as +ge com homward , PASTON,I,39.016.325

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and speke sadly for j nothyr fermour . PASTON,I,39.016.326

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for tydyngys , Phylyppe Berney is passyd to God on Munday last
past , wyt +te grettes peyn that evyr I sey man . PASTON,I,39.016.327

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Tuysday Sere Jon $Henyngham +gede to hys chyrche
PASTON,I,39.016.328

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and herd iij massys , PASTON,I,39.016.329

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and cam hom agayn nevyr meryer , PASTON,I,39.016.330

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd to hese wyf that he wuld go sey a lytyll deuocion in hese
gardeyn and than he wuld dyne ; PASTON,I,39.016.331

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forth-wyth he felt a feyntyng in hese legge PASTON,I,39.016.332

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and syyd doun . PASTON,I,39.016.333

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys was at ix of +te clok , PASTON,I,39.016.334

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he was ded or none . PASTON,I,39.016.335

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn cosyn Clere preyt you that +ge lete no man se here letter wheche is
in-selyd vndyr my selle . PASTON,I,39.016.336

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you that +ge wyl pay youre brothyr William for iiij vnce and j
half of sylke as he payd , wheche he send me by William <P_I,40>
Tauyrnere , and bryng wyt you j quarter of j vnce evyn leke of the same
that I sende you closyd in thys letter . PASTON,I,40.016.337

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sey youre brothyr William that hese hors hath j farseyn and grete
rennyng sorys in hese leggis . PASTON,I,40.016.338

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue you in kepyng . PASTON,I,40.016.339

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_016:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on Sent Thomas Evyn in grete hast . Be youre modyr
A. Paston PASTON,I,40.016.340

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_APASTON> <L_PASTON_017> <A_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,42>

{ED:29._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_1_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston at London be this delyuered jn hast . </font>
PASTON,I,42.017.341

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you welle , PASTON,I,42.017.342

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete you wete that this day Bertholomew Elys of Paston come to
Norwych to me and shewyt me a rentall for the terme of Seynt Michel the
yere of Kyng H. vj xxxix=ti= , PASTON,I,42.017.343

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jn the ende of the seyd rentall , of Waryn Kynges hand , is wretyn
' Agnes Paston vij d. ob . Item , the same Agnes for v acre lond xx d .
' PASTON,I,42.017.344

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Aleyn Bayfeld askyth the same rent for the yere last past at
Michaelmas . PASTON,I,42.017.345

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue knowlech be a trew man that whan Sharpe the reseyuore was
at Gemyngham last Waryn Herman was dyuers dayes wyth hym , <P_I,43> and
put hym in mynde +tat +te mercyment for makyng of the walle chuld be
askyd ageyn and be distreynyd +ter-fore . PASTON,I,43.017.346

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I sent you be Doctore Aleyns man the rescew of Waryn Herman and
seche names as Cullynge and Sammys putt in of her owyn fre wylle
be-fore John Northales , shereue of Norwyche , vnder her selis .
PASTON,I,43.017.347

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God be wyth you PASTON,I,43.017.348

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you his blyssyng and myn . PASTON,I,43.017.349

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwych the Tuisday next after Seynt Andrew .
PASTON,I,43.017.350

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the seyd Bertholomew Elis seyth that +te seyd reseyore wold not
alowe the rent in Trunche nor the mercymentys for my sute to +te curt .
PASTON,I,43.017.351

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Gonnore wold suffyr no man to answere for me . PASTON,I,43.017.352

AUTHOR:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:SON:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_017:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be youre moder Agnes Paston PASTON,I,43.017.353

<Q_PAS_A_1449?_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_018> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,53>

{ED:37._TO_AN_UNIDENTIFIED_PERSON_IN_LONDON:DRAFT_ABOUT_1449}

<P_I,54>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , I pray yow +tat ye will send sum chyld to my lord of Bukingham
place , and to +te Crown , wich as I conseiue is callid Gerardis Hall
in Bredstret , to inquere whedir I haue any answere of my letter sent
to Caleys whech ye know off , and that ye will remembre my bro+tiris
ston so +tat it myth be mad er I cumm ageyn , and +tat it $be klenly
wrowgth . PASTON,I,54.018.354

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is told me +tat +te man at Sent Bridis is no klenly portrayer ,
$wherfor I wold fayn it myth be portrayid be sum odir man , and he to
graue it vp . PASTON,I,54.018.355

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$... It is informyd sum personis in +tis cuntre` +tat ye know +tat +te
frere will sew a-nodir delegaci fro Rome direkt to sum bischop of
Ingland to amend his mater , &c. , PASTON,I,54.018.356

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and how be it +tat it may not gretly hurt , yet +te seyd personis , &c.
, wold not he shuld haue his entent , in $asmoch as his suggestion is
vntrewe , PASTON,I,54.018.357

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ra+ter +tey wold spend mony to lette it . PASTON,I,54.018.358

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I suppose +te Abbot of Bery shuld labor for him rather +tan anodir
becawse $+te $seyd Abbot is aparteynor to +te lord +tat is +te freris
mayntener , &c. ; wherfore , ser , my modir and I pray yow $inquere
after a man callid Clederro whych is solisitor and attorne` with
$Master Will Grey , +tat late was +te Kinggis proktor at Rome ,
PASTON,I,54.018.359

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +te seyd Clederro sendith maters and letters owth of Ingeland to
his seyd master $euery monith , &c . PASTON,I,54.018.360

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is well knowe in London and $among +te Lumbardis , and with +te
Bischep of Winchesteres men , PASTON,I,54.018.361

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I wot not wher he dwellit in London ; PASTON,I,54.018.362

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I suppos if ye speke with him he knowith me . PASTON,I,54.018.363

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Plese yow to comen with him of +tis mater , PASTON,I,54.018.364

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but let him not wete of +te mater atwix my modir and him ,
PASTON,I,54.018.365

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but desir him to wryth to his master to lett +tis if it may be ; or ell
to se +te best wey +tat he haue not his intent , and to comon with $+te
proktor of +te Whith Freris at Rome to $help forth .
PASTON,I,54.018.366

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For +te freris here haue laborid to my modir and praiid her to help to
lette his on-trewe intent , PASTON,I,54.018.367

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and haue wrete to her proketor befor +tis ; PASTON,I,54.018.368

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I suppose if ye speke to +te prior of +te Freris at London he will
writh to her seyd proktor , &c . PASTON,I,54.018.369

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But tell +te prior no word +tat I know $+terof , PASTON,I,54.018.370

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but let him wete if he will wryth <P_I,55> to his proktor odir men
shall help forth . PASTON,I,55.018.371

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$More-ouer +tat ye will tell Cledero +tat I am not seker +tat +te frere
laborith +tus $but be talis of freris and odir . PASTON,I,55.018.372

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neuertheles let him writh to his master +tat whatsumevyr he do herin he
shall be truly content for his labor and costis . PASTON,I,55.018.373

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if ye $think +tat Cledro will writh effectually herin , geff hym j
noble . PASTON,I,55.018.374

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Let hym let his master know +tat my lord of Wynchester and Danyell ow
godwill to +te part that he shall labor fore . PASTON,I,55.018.375

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if +tere be fown no sech swth be +te seyd $frere , yet wold I haue
sum thing fro Rome to anull +te old bull , &c. , or to apeyre it $if it
myth be do esily , &c. , and $tyding wheder +ter be any sech sute , &c
. PASTON,I,55.018.376

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr awn , &c . PASTON,I,55.018.377

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$... how beit +tat it may now+tir avayle ner hurt , yet my modir will
+tis be do . PASTON,I,55.018.378

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$I send yow +te copi of +te bull and how execuciun was do , and
informaciun of +te mater jn parte , &c . PASTON,I,55.018.379

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray yow red it ouer , PASTON,I,55.018.380

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spede yow homward . PASTON,I,55.018.381

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , ser , I $shal content yowr $noble , &c . PASTON,I,55.018.382

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28?
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_4:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_018:M4:1449?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Bryng +tis letter hom with yow , &c . PASTON,I,55.018.383

<Q_PAS_C_1450_FS_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_019> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,56>

{ED:39._TO_JAMES_GRESHAM:COPY_1450,_4_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
James Gresham , I prey yow laboure forth to haue answer of my bille for
myn especial assise and the oyer and termyner accordyng to my seid
bille that I delyuered to my lord Chaunceler , letyng hym wete that ,
as for that <P_I,57> his lordship conceyved the graunt of suyche a
special matier myght cause a rumour in +te cuntre` , owt of dowte the
cuntre` is not so disposed , for it is desired ageyn suche persones as
the $cuntre` wolde were ponysshid . PASTON,I,57.019.384

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if they be not ponysshid to refourme that they haue do amysse , by
liklynesse the cuntre` wole rise up on $them . PASTON,I,57.019.385

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
$Men talke that a general oier and termyner is graunted to the Duke of
Norffolk , my lord of Ely , the Erll of Oxenford , the Lord Scales ,
Ser John Fastolf , Ser Thomas Fulthorp , and William Yeluerton ,
PASTON,I,57.019.386

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and men be right glad therof . PASTON,I,57.019.387

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yet that not withstondyng , laboure ye forth for me ,
PASTON,I,57.019.388

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
$for in a general oyer and termyner a supersedeas may dassh al ,
PASTON,I,57.019.389

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so shall not in a special . PASTON,I,57.019.390

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also if +te justicez come at my $request they shall sytte als long
as I wole , PASTON,I,57.019.391

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so shall thei not by the generall . PASTON,I,57.019.392

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for commyssioners in myn , &c. , Ser John Fastolf must be
pleyntyf als weel as I my-self , PASTON,I,57.019.393

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he may not be commyssioner ; PASTON,I,57.019.394

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for alle the remenaunt I can thynke them indifferent j-now in
+te matier except my Lord Scales , whos wyff is aunte to +te Lady
Moleyns . PASTON,I,57.019.395

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for that +te Lord Moleyns hath wretyn , +tat he dar put +te
matier in awarde of my lord Chaunceler and in what juge he wole take to
hym , &c. , whiche offre as I suppose shall be tolde to yow for to make
yow to cesse your labour , thanne lete +tat be answerid and my lord
Chaunceler enfourmed thus . PASTON,I,57.019.396

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
The matier was in trete` by th'assent of +te Lord Moleyns atwene his
counseil and myn , whiche assembled at London xvj dyuers dayes , and
for +te more part there was a sergeant and vj or vij thrifty
apprentisez ; at whiche tyme the Lord Moleyns title was shewed and
clerly answerid , in so meche +tat his own counseil seide they cowde no
forther in the matier , desiryng me to ride to Salesbury to +te Lord
Moleyns , promyttyng of their part that thei wolde moeve the Lord
Moleyns so +tat +tei trusted I shuld haue myn entent or I come thens ;
of whiche title and answer I sende yow a copie that hath be put in-to
+te parlement , the Lord Moleyns beyng there present , wherto he cowde
not sey nay . PASTON,I,57.019.397

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also by-fore +tis tyme I haue agreed to put it in ij juges so +tei
wolde determyne by our euydences the right , moevyng nother partie to
yeve o+ter by ony mene , but only the right determyned , he to be fully
recompensed that hath right ; wherto he wold not agree , but alle tymes
wolde +tat thoe juges shulde entrete the parties as they myght be drawe
to , by offre and profre to my conceyte as men bye hors . Whiche
matiers considerid , my conseil hath alwey conceyved that the tretees
+tat he offred hath be to non othir entent but to delaye the matier ,
or ellis to entrete me to relese my damages , PASTON,I,57.019.398

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
for title hath he non . PASTON,I,57.019.399

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he knowith weel the title shall neuer better be vndirstond thanne
it hath be by his counseil and myn $at $te {TEXT:atte} seid
comunycacions . PASTON,I,57.019.400

<P_I,58>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also $... my lord Chaunceler vndirstond that +te Lord Moleyns men
toke and bar away more +tanne cc li. worth of my goodes and catalles ,
wherof I delyuered hym a bylle of euery parcell wherto $alle +te world
knoweth he canne make no title ; PASTON,I,58.019.401

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if he were disposed to do right my counsell thynketh he shulde
restore +tat , PASTON,I,58.019.402

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +terfor nedith nowthir $comunycacion ne trete` .
PASTON,I,58.019.403

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And with-owt he wole restore that , I trowe no $man can thynk that his
trete` is to no good purpose . PASTON,I,58.019.404

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
I preye yow hertily laboure ye so to my lord Chaunceller that owther he
wole graunte me my desire or ellis that he wole denye it ;
PASTON,I,58.019.405

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lete me haue answer from yow in wrytyng how ye spede .
PASTON,I,58.019.406

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
If my lord Chaunceler hath lost my bille +tat I delyuered hym , wherof
I sende yow a copie , that thanne ye put up to hym an othir of +te same
, takyng a copie to your-self . PASTON,I,58.019.407

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Recomaund me to my cosyn William Whyte , PASTON,I,58.019.408

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prey hym to gyf yow his help in this ; PASTON,I,58.019.409

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lete hym be prevy to +tis letter , PASTON,I,58.019.410

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lete hym $wete +tat my cosyn his suster hath childe a doughter .
PASTON,I,58.019.411

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Norwich the iiij day of September . PASTON,I,58.019.412

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_019:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Dyuerse men of my freendis auyse me to entre in-to +te maner of Gresham
by force of my writte of restitucion , whiche I wole not do by cause
+te maner is so decayed by the Lord Moleyns ocupacion that where it was
worth to me l marc. clerly by yeere I cowde not now make it worth xx
li. ; for whiche hurt and for othir hurtis by +tis special assise I
trust to haue remedye . PASTON,I,58.019.413

<Q_PAS_A_1452_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_020> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,64>

{ED:42._PROBABLY_TO_THE_SHERIFF_OF_NORFOLK:DRAFTS_1452,_23_APRIL}

{ED:A}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_020:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$Reuerent and Right wurchepfull ser , we comaund vs to yow .
PASTON,I,64.020.414

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_020:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please it yow to wete that we and othire jentilmen of the shire of
Norffolk hath be in purpose to assuyd to +te hygh and migthi prens and
owr right gode and gracyous lord the Duke of Norffolk to $Framyngham ,
to haue enformyd his Highnesse of dyuers assautis and riott mad be
Charlis Nowell and odir ageyn +te $Kingis pees vpon Jon Paston and odir
of owr kyn , frend , and neyboris , ne had be +tat dayly +tes x days jt
hath be do vs to vndirstand +tat hys Highnes shuld com in-to Norwich or
Claxton , <P_I,65> we not being in $serteyn yet where he shall $remeue
; $praying yow , as we trust +tat ye tender +te welfare of +tis shyre
and of the gentilmen +terin , +tat ye well let owr seyd lord haue
$knowing of owre intent , and after to send vs ansewere whedir it plese
his Hynes we shuld com to his presens and at what plase , or to send
owr $compleynt to him , $trosting to his god $lordshep of remedi in
+tis mater , whech do semith vs shall be to owr seyd lordis honure and
gret rejoy to +te gentilmen of +tis shyre , and cause +te pese to kep
be +te grase of God , ho haue yow in his blesid $keping , &c .
PASTON,I,65.020.415

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_020:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wret at Norwych on Sent Georgis Day . PASTON,I,65.020.416

<Q_PAS_AC_1452_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_021> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,66>

{ED:43._PROBABLY_TO_THE_SHERIFF_OF_NORFOLK:DRAFT_1452,_23_APRIL}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
Reuerent and ryth worsepfull ser and my god master , I recommand me to
yow . PASTON,I,66.021.417

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
Plese yow to wete +tat Charlis Nowell , with odir , hath in +tis
cuntre` mad many riot and savtis , and $among othir he and v of his
felachip set vp-on me and to of my seruantis at +te Chathedrall chirch
of Norwich , he $smyting at me whilis on of his felaws held myn armis
at my bak <P_I,67> as the berer herof shall more playnly inform yow ;
whech was to me $strawnge cas , $thinking $in my $conseyth +tat I was
my lordis man and his homagere or Charlis knew $hys $lordschipe and
+tat my lord was my god lord , +tat I had be with my lord at London
within viij $days be-for Lent , at which tyme he grantyd me his
godlordship so largely +tat it must cause me euer to be his trew
$seruant to myn $power . PASTON,I,67.021.418

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
I thowt also +tat I had neuer geff cawse to non of my lordis hous to ow
me evill will , ne +tat +ter was non of +te hows but I wold haue do
fore as I cowd desire animan to do for me , and yet will , except my
aduersare` . PASTON,I,67.021.419

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
And +tus I and my frendis haff mwsid of +tis , and thowt he was hired
to do +tus , PASTON,I,67.021.420

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
and +tis $notwithstanding , assone as knolech was had of my lordis
coming to $Framingham , neuer attemptid to procede ageyns him as justis
and law wuld , but to trust to my seyd lord +tat his Hyghnes wold se
+tis punischid , PASTON,I,67.021.421

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
and desirid my $master $Howard , mi cosin Tymperle` , +te dene , and
odir to dayly hath be redy with such $jentilmen as dwelle here-a-bought
that can record the trought to haue come compleyn to my lord ,
PASTON,I,67.021.422

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
but we haue had contynually tydyngis of my lordis comyng heder that
causid vs for to a-bide there-vp-vn , besechyng your gode maystershep
that ye wull lete my lord haue knowlech of my compleynt , and that ye
wull tender the gode spede of the entent of the letteris wretyn to you
fro jentilmen of this shire , prayng you that ye woll yeve credens to
the berere here-of , PASTON,I,67.021.423

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
be his gode mayster in cas any man make any qwarell to hym .
PASTON,I,67.021.424

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
And what that I may do be your comaundment shall be redi with the grace
of God , how haue you in his blissid kepyng . PASTON,I,67.021.425

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
Wretyn at Norwhich vn Seynt Georgis Day . PASTON,I,67.021.426

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_021:M4:1452:AC:OTHER
To my lord +te {ED:?} ch <em> ... </em> of +tis <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,67.021.427

<Q_PAS_A_1452_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_022> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,68>

{ED:44._PROBABLY_TO_THE_SHERIFF_OF_NORFOLK:DRAFT_1452}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryth worchepfull ser and cosyn , I recummand me to yow
PASTON,I,68.022.428

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$and pray yow +tat ye will in mi $behalf inform my lord of +te
$demening of Charlis Nowell to me ward , $withowt $occaciun gef on mi
part , as +te berer $herof shal $remembre $yow . PASTON,I,68.022.429

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am and was my lordis man and homager or +te seyd Charlis knew my lord
, PASTON,I,68.022.430

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and will do my lord sech seruis as I can ; PASTON,I,68.022.431

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +tat ye will tendre +te god sped of +te mater of +te letter direct
to yow from serteyn gentilmen of +tes shire , with whech jentilmen and
odir to bere $record of riot rowtis I haue be $purposed dayly toward my
lord to compleyn to his $lordship . PASTON,I,68.022.432

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But +te continuall $tydingis of my seyd lordis coming heder hath cawsid
vs to awayt +teropon ; $beseching yow , cosine , as my trust is in yow
, +tat ye will help to kepe +te god rewle of +tes shire and my pore
honestte` , and geff credens to +te berer herof and be his god master
if any querel be mad to him . PASTON,I,68.022.433

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_022:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And what I may do for you , I am and euer shall be redi to do it , be
the grace of God , hoo PASTON,I,68.022.434

<Q_PAS_AC_1452?_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_023> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,69>

{ED:45._TO_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:DRAFT_PERHAPS_1452,_20_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Brothir Suthwell , I comand me to yow , $sertifijng yow +tat on
Thursday be +te morwe I spak with my cosine $Wichingham at London ,
where he lete me wet of yowr letter sent to Lee , wherby I conseyve +te
stedfast godlordship and ladiship of my lord and my lady in +tis mater
&c. , whech geuith cause to all her seruantis to trost verily in +tem
and to do hem trew seruise . PASTON,I,69.023.435

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
I lete yow wete that the seyd Wychyngham , whan I departid from hym ,
had knowleche that Jane Boys shuld that nyght be come to London ,
PASTON,I,69.023.436

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and he put jn a bylle to the lordis for to have delyuerauns of hyr and
to haue hese aduersarys arestid ; PASTON,I,69.023.437

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and this nyght at Norwiche was told me newe tydynggis that she shuld vn
Thursday after my $departing a be before the lordis , and there a saide
untrewly of her-selff , as the berer hereof shal informe yow if ye know
it not before ; of wheche tydynggis , if they be trew , I am sory for
her sake , PASTON,I,69.023.438

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and also I fere that her frendys shuld sew the more feyntely , wheche
Godde defende ; PASTON,I,69.023.439

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
for <P_I,70> her seying vntreuly of her-selff may hurt +te mater in no
man but herselff , PASTON,I,70.023.440

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and thow she wol mescheue her-selff it were gret pete` but if the mater
were laborid forth - not for her sake but for the worchepe of the
estatys and other that have laboryd therin and in ponyshing of the gret
oryble dede , wherfore I send yow dyuers articljs in a bill closed
herin wheche preue that she was raveshid ayens hyr wel , what so ever
she sey . PASTON,I,70.023.441

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
+Tes be prouis that Jane Boys was rauischid ageyn her wil , and not be
her own assent : PASTON,I,70.023.442

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
On is that she , the tyme of her takyng whan she was set upon her hors
, she revylid Lancasterother and callid hym knave , and wept and kryid
owte upon hym $pitowsly to her , and seid as shrewdly to hym as coud
come to her mende , and fel doune of her hors vnto that {unto}_P she
was bound , and callid him fals $traytur +tat browth her +te rabbettis
. PASTON,I,70.023.443

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Item , whan she was bounde she callid vpon her modyre , wheche folwyd
her as far as she myght on her feet , PASTON,I,70.023.444

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and whan the seid Jane sey she myght goo no ferther she kryid to her
modyre PASTON,I,70.023.445

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and seid that what so ever fel of her she shuld neuer be weddyd to that
knave , to deye for it . PASTON,I,70.023.446

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Item , be the weye at Shraggarys hous in Kokely Cley , and at
Brychehamwell and in all other places wher she myght see any people ,
she kryid owte vpon hym PASTON,I,70.023.447

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and lete people wete whos dowtyre she was and how she was raveshid
a-yens her wyll , desyeryng the people to folwe her and reskew her .
PASTON,I,70.023.448

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Item , Lancasterotherys prest of the Egle in Lyncolne-shire , wheche
shroff her , seid that she told hym in confession that she wold neuer
be weddyd to hym to deye for it , PASTON,I,70.023.449

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and the same prest seid he wold not wedde hem to-gedyre $for m=l= li .
PASTON,I,70.023.450

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Item , she sent diuers tokenes of massage to Sothwell be Robert Inglose
, wheche previth welle at that tyme she louyd not Lancasterother .
PASTON,I,70.023.451

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Item , a man of the master of Carbrokes come dyuers tymes in the weke
before she was raveshid to Wychynghams hous PASTON,I,70.023.452

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and inquerid of her mayde whedyre her mastras was insuerid to Sothwell
or nay , the wheche preuyth well that Lancasterother was not sure of
her godwill , <P_I,71> ne knew not of her counseyl ,
PASTON,I,71.023.453

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
for if he had he ne nedid not to haue sent no spyes . Whech seen , I
avyse yow to move my lord and my lady to do in this mater as affettualy
as they have do before , for this mater touchyth hem , consideryng that
they have be-gonne . PASTON,I,71.023.454

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
And dowt not , what so euer falle of the woman , well or evel , my lord
and my lady shal have worchep of the mater if it be wel laborid ;
PASTON,I,71.023.455

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and also ye shall auayl +terof PASTON,I,71.023.456

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and +te aduers parte chall gret trobil . PASTON,I,71.023.457

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Also , it were necessarie that Wychyngham were sent to and $conforted
in hese seute , and that he a-vysid hym of seche articlis and preues of
the mater as I haue sent to yow and put hem in $writing , but not to
disclose non +te preues to non creature vnto the tyme that it fortune
+te mater to be tried be enquest or other wyse take end ;
PASTON,I,71.023.458

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
but avyse hym for to seye to +te lordis and all {ED:UNINTELLIGIBLE} in
generall termes that what so euere Lancasterother or hese douter seyn
nowh it shal be wel preuyd she was reveshid ayens her wyll ,
PASTON,I,71.023.459

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and let him desire of +te lordis +tat his dowter mith be in his kepyng
and at large fro Lancasterother vn-tylle the mater were duly examynd .
PASTON,I,71.023.460

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
I wold +tis mater sped the betyre be-cause my lady $spake so
feythefully to me therin , PASTON,I,71.023.461

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and that mevyth me to wryte to yow this long symple lettyre of myn
jntent . PASTON,I,71.023.462

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
<em> Wher ye be informyd that vj men of Osbern Monforthes shul a be at
the seid raueshing , I sertifie yow verely it was not soo ,
PASTON,I,71.023.463

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
for Osbern Mondeford wol do in the mater all that ever he can or may to
help to punish +te doer , PASTON,I,71.023.464

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
and desirith to know +te grownd of +tat tale , of wheche I pray send me
word , and what ye will ellis . </em> PASTON,I,71.023.465

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
God kep yow . PASTON,I,71.023.466

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_023:M4:1452?:AC:OTHER
Wret at Norwich +te Soneday nex before +te fest of Sent $Margeret .
PASTON,I,71.023.467

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_024> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_NORWODE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,74>

{ED:47._TO_JOHN_NORWODE_NOT_BEFORE_1453}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To John Norwode . </font> PASTON,I,74.024.468

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I lete you wete that Hache hath do no werk of myn where-fore he aught
to haue receyvid any mony savyng only for the makyng of the litill hous
a-bove the halle wyndownes , PASTON,I,74.024.469

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for the remenaunte was that fell down in his diffaute .
PASTON,I,74.024.470

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And as for the makyng of that litill hous , he toke that in a
comenaunte with makyng of too chymnyes of Ser Thomas Howys for xl s. ,
which comenaunte may not hold be-cause that I must haue thre chymnyes
and in a-nothere place . PASTON,I,74.024.471

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Item , the seid litill hows drawyth not v thowsand tyle , which after
xvj d. the thowsand shuld drawe vj s. viij d . Notwithstandyng , if Ser
Thomas thynk that he shuld be a-lowyd $mo , he shall be .
PASTON,I,74.024.472

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And ye must remembre how that he hath receyvid vj s. viij d. of you ,
and of Robert Tolle be-fore Halwemesse , as apperith in his accompt ,
viij s. . PASTON,I,74.024.473

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And he hath receyvid of Tolle sith Halwemesse v s. iiij d .
PASTON,I,74.024.474

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And than be this rekenyng he shuld be xiij s. iiij d. a-fore hand ,
which I wuld ye shuld gadere vp in this newe werk as wele as ye myght ,
PASTON,I,74.024.475

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for I am be-hold to do hym but litill favour . PASTON,I,74.024.476

<P_I,75>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Item , be ware +ter leve no firsis in +te deke +tat ye repare , and
+tat +te wode be mad of fagot and leyd vp forthwith as it is fellid for
taking away . PASTON,I,75.024.477

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I wold ye were her on Satirday at $euyn thow ye red ageyn on Moneday .
PASTON,I,75.024.478

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_NORWODE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_024:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Jon Paston PASTON,I,75.024.479

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_025> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1443>

<P_I,80>

{ED:49._TO_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1454,_31_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Right wurchepfull and my right especiall lord , I recomaund me to yowre
<P_I,81> gode lordshep , besechyng youre lordshep that ye take not to
displesauns thow I write you as I here sey : that Agnes Denyes , be the
meanes of your lordshep and of my lord the Cardynall , hos sowle God
assoyle and forgeve , was set in preson beyng with child ; which , and
the sorough and shame there-of , was nygh here deth , and yet dayly is
vexed and trobled , and here seruauntes in like wyse , to the vttermest
distruccion of here person and godes . In which , my lord , at the
reuerens of God , remembre that she was maried be you , and be my
meanes be your comaundment and writyng , and drow there-to full sore
a-geyn here entent in the be-gynnyng , and was worth v c marc. and
better , and shuld haue had a gentilman of this contre` of an c marc.
of lond and wele born , ne had be your gode lordshep and writyng to
here and me . PASTON,I,81.025.480

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And this considered in your wise discrecion , I trost , my lord , thow
here prisonyng were of oderes labore ye wuld help here ;
PASTON,I,81.025.481

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and if she be distroyd be this mariage my conscyens thynketh I am bownd
to recompense here after my pore and sympill power .
PASTON,I,81.025.482

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
My lord , ye know I had litill cause to do for Thomas Denyes , savyng
only for your gode lordshep . PASTON,I,81.025.483

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Also , my lord , I know wele that Watere Ingham was bete , the matere
hangyng in myn a-ward , right fowle and shamefully ; and also how the
seid Thomas Denyes hath this last terme , a-geyn your nobill estat ,
right vn-wysely demened hym to his shame and grettest rebuke that euer
he had in his lyve ; where-fore it is right wele do his person be
ponysshed as it pleaseth you . PASTON,I,81.025.484

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
But this not withstondyng , for Goddes loue , my lord , remembre how
the gentilwoman is accombred only for yowre sake , and help here ;
PASTON,I,81.025.485

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and if aught lyth in my powere to do that that myght please yowre
lordshep , or cowde fynde any wey for Water Ingham a-vayll and wurchep
, I wull do it to my powere , and the rathere if your lordshep support
the jentilwoman , PASTON,I,81.025.486

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
for I know the matere and that longe plee is litill a-vayll ,
PASTON,I,81.025.487

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and euery thing must haue an ende . PASTON,I,81.025.488

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
I haue told my brothere Mathew Drury more to enfourme yowre lordshep
than I may haue leysere to write for his hasty departyng .
PASTON,I,81.025.489

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Right wurchepfull and my right especiall lord , I besech Allmyghty God
send you asmych joy and wurchep as euer had any of my lordes yowre
aunceteres , and kepe you and all yowres . PASTON,I,81.025.490

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Norwich the iiij Sonday of Lent . PASTON,I,81.025.491

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:11
LETTER:PASTON_025:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Yowre seruaunte to his powre , John Paston PASTON,I,81.025.492

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_026> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_WILLIAM_GREY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,82>

{ED:50._TO_LORD_GREY:DRAFT_1454,_15_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Dominus de Grey . PASTON,I,82.026.493

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Right worshipfull and my ryght gode lord , I recommand me to yowre
godelordship ; PASTON,I,82.026.494

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and where as it pleasyd yowre lordship to dyrecte yowr lettere to me
for a maryage fore my pore suster to a jantylman of yowre knowlech of
ccc marc. lyflod in cas she were not maryd , wherfore I am gretely
bownd to do your lordship servyse , forso+te my lord she is not marijd
ne jnsurid to noman . PASTON,I,82.026.495

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Ther is , and hath be dyvers tymys and late comunycacion of seche
maryagys wyth dyuers jantylmen not determynyd as yett ;
PASTON,I,82.026.496

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and wheddere the jantylman +tat yowre lordchip menith of be on of hem
or nay I dowth . PASTON,I,82.026.497

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And where as your seyd lettere specyfyith that I shuld send yow word
wheddere I thowght ye shuld labour ferthere in the matere or nay , in
that , my lord , I dare not preswme to wryte so to yow wythowte I knew
the gentylmans name . PASTON,I,82.026.498

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Notwythstandyng , my lord , I shall take uppe-on me , wyth the avyse of
othere of here frendys , that she shall nothere-1 be marijd ner inswryd
to no creatwre , ne forthere prosede in no seche matere , before the
fest of the Assumpcion of Owre Lady next comyng ; dwryng whyche tyme
yowre lordship may send me , if itt please yow , certeyn informacion of
the seyd gentylmannys name , and of the place and contrey where hys
lyfflod lyth , and wheddere he hath any chyldere . PASTON,I,82.026.499

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And after I shall demene me in the matere as yowre lordship shall be
pleasyd . PASTON,I,82.026.500

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
For jn gode feyth , my lord , it were to me grette joy that my seyd
pore sustere were , $acording to her pore degre` , marijd be yowre
avyse , trustyng thanne that ye wold be here gode lord .
PASTON,I,82.026.501

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Ryght wurchipfull and my ryght gode lord , I beseche Almyghty God to
haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,82.026.502

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_GREY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_026:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Wrete att Norwych the xv day of Jull . PASTON,I,82.026.503

<Q_PAS_C_1455?_T_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_027> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1415>

<P_I,83>

{ED:51._TO_THE_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK:DRAFT_PROBABLY_1455}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
Right hy and myghty prynce , my right gode and gracyous lord , I
recomand me to your godelordship , &c. ; PASTON,I,83.027.504

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
and please itt your Hyghnesse to wete +tat Ser Philip Wentewurth
purchasid +te Kyngis patentis of the ward of the heyere and londes of a
pore kynnesman of myne called John Fastolf of Cowhawe , late passed to
God , to +te grett hurte and distrucion as-well of +te inheritance of
+te seyd heyer as interrupcion and breking of the last will of the seyd
John , and also to my grett troble and dammage . PASTON,I,83.027.505

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
And for asmeche as it fortowned be grase the seyd patentes to be
mystake so +tat they were not laufull ne suffycyent , be avyce of
conceyll certeyn persones to myn vse purchesid be the Kyngis letteres
patentes suffycyent and laufull of the ward of the seyd londes ,
PASTON,I,83.027.506

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
and the rigth of these bothe patentis hath be putte in juges and lerned
men , affor hom the seyd Ser Philipp ne his conceyll cowd neuer prove
hes tytill lawfull be his seyd $patentis ; PASTON,I,83.027.507

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
and +tis notwythstanding , intendith be fors , as I vnderstand , to
take +te profytes of +te seyd londis ageyns all lawe and concyence ;
PASTON,I,83.027.508

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:40?
LETTER:PASTON_027:M4:1455?:COPY:OTHER
beseching your lordchip to tender me in myn age and sekenesse +tat may
not ryde ne help myself , and of your habundant grace to supporte me in
my right +tat I be not be fors , ageyns lawe and <P_I,84> concyence ,
kepte from +te possescion of +te seyd londes in this contre` wher ye be
prynce and souereyn next owre souereyn lord . PASTON,I,84.027.509

<Q_PAS_C_1455?_FS_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_028> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1421> <R_JAMES_GLOYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,84>

{ED:52._TO_JAMES_GLOYS:DRAFT_PROBABLY_1455,_25_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
To Ser Jamis Gloys PASTON,I,84.028.510

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther be dyuers thyngis in your letter , sent to me , on that a
$slawnderus noyse shuld renne ageyns Yeluerton , $Alyngton , and me to
brynge us owte of the conceytis of the puple be Heydon and his
dyscyplis of a bill that shuld haue do put uppe in-to the parlement
ageyns my lord of Norwich and odir . PASTON,I,84.028.511

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
I lete yow wete this is the furst day +tat I herd of any seche ,
PASTON,I,84.028.512

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I wold wete the namys of hem that vttere this langage and the mater
of the bill . PASTON,I,84.028.513

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for my lord of Norwych , I suppose ye know I haue not <P_I,85> vsid
to meddel wyth lordis materis meche forther than me nedith .
PASTON,I,85.028.514

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Ser Thomas Todynham , he gaff me no cawse of late tyme to
labour ageyns hym , PASTON,I,85.028.515

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also of seche mater I know non deffaut in hym . PASTON,I,85.028.516

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Heydon , when I putte a bill ageyns hym I suppose he shall
no cause have , ne his discyplis nothere , to avante of so short a
remedy +ter-of as ye wrygth they sey now . PASTON,I,85.028.517

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for that ye desyre +tat I shuld send yow word what ye shuld sey in
this mater , I pray yow to in this and all o+ter lyke ask +te seyeris
if +tei will abyd be +ter langage , PASTON,I,85.028.518

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for me sey I purpose me to take no mater uppon me butt +tat I
woll abyde by , and in lek wys for $Yeluerton and $Alington .
PASTON,I,85.028.519

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And that ye send me the namys of them that ye wryte +tat herd this
langage and seyd shrewydly , and what they seyd , and that ye remembre
what men of substance wer ther that herde itt ; PASTON,I,85.028.520

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
for if this can be dreve to Heydon or his dissyplis , as ye wryte , it
wer a gode preve +tat they fere to be appelyd of seche materis .
PASTON,I,85.028.521

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I thank yow for your godwill . PASTON,I,85.028.522

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34?
RECIPIENT:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_028:M4:1455?:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wrete att Norwych on Seynt James Day , $&c . PASTON,I,85.028.523

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_029> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,91>

{ED:55._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1460,_19_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my trusty cosyn Margaret Paston at Norwich be this delyuered
. </font> PASTON,I,91.029.524

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Richard Calle at Castere be this deliuerid in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,91.029.525

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaunde me to you , letyng you witte +tat I sent a letter to John
Russe and Richard Kalle that thei , by th'aduyse of Watkyn Shipdam and
William Barker , shuld send me word of whom alle the maneres , londes ,
and tenementes +tat were Ser John Fastolffes wern holde , preyng you
+tat ye wole do them spede them in +tat matier . PASTON,I,91.029.526

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if my feodaryes whiche lye in +te tye of my gret cofyr may ought
wisse ther-in , lete them se it . PASTON,I,91.029.527

<P_I,92>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I wolde that William Barker shulde send me a copye of +te olde
trauerse of Tychewell and Beyton . PASTON,I,92.029.528

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And lete Richard Kalle spede hym hidderward , and come by Snaylwel and
take suyche mony as may be getyn there ; and +tat he suffre not +te
mony +tat +te tenauntes owe to come in +te fermours handes .
PASTON,I,92.029.529

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , +tat he come by Cambrigge and bryng with hym Maister Brakkele`s
licence from +te prouynciall of +te Grey Freres . PASTON,I,92.029.530

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey you recomaunde me to my modir . PASTON,I,92.029.531

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the Thursday next to-fore Middesomer .
PASTON,I,92.029.532

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_029:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston PASTON,I,92.029.533

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_030> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,92>

{ED:56._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1460,_28_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my wurschipfull coosyn Margaret Paston be this delyuerd in
haste . </font> PASTON,I,92.030.534

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaunde me vnto you , letyng you witte that your vnkyll John
Berney is deed , whoos soule God haue mercy ; desyryng you to sende for
Thomas Holler and enquere of hym wher his goode is and what he is
wurthe , and that he take goode eede to all suche goodes as he had ,
bothe meveable and on-mevable , for I vndre-stande that he is wurthe in
money v c marke and in plate to the valwe of other v c marke , beside
other goodes . Wherfor I wolde ye schulde not lete hym wete of his
dissese vnto the tyme that ye had enquered of the seide Thomas Holler
of all suche maters as be a-bovyn wreten . PASTON,I,92.030.535

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whan he hathe enformed you therof , than lete hym wete verely that
he is deede ; desiryng hym that no man come on-to his place at Redham
but hym-selfe vnto the tyme that I come . PASTON,I,92.030.536

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I lete you witte that gret parte of his goode is at William
Tauerners , as I vndrestande . PASTON,I,92.030.537

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Holler woll telle you justely the <P_I,93> trouthe , as I
suppose ; PASTON,I,93.030.538

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyre hym on my behalfe that he doo soo . PASTON,I,93.030.539

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ther is writyng therof , PASTON,I,93.030.540

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and telle Thomas Holler that I and he be executours named .
PASTON,I,93.030.541

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore lete hym take heede that the goodes be kept saffe , and
that no body knowe wher it shall lie but ye and Thomas Holler .
PASTON,I,93.030.542

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Thomas Holler , as your vnkyll tolde me , is prevy wher all his
goode lithe , and all his writyng ; PASTON,I,93.030.543

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I wol that ye be prevy to the same for casualte` of deethe ,
PASTON,I,93.030.544

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye too $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} his executours for me as longe as
ye doo trewly , as I trowe verely ye woll . PASTON,I,93.030.545

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wreten at London the xxviij=ti= day of Jule . PASTON,I,93.030.546

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowre Jon Paston PASTON,I,93.030.547

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_030:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I requer yow be of god cumffoort and be not heuy if ye wil do owth for
me . PASTON,I,93.030.548

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_031> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,95>

{ED:58._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1461,_12_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my cosyn Margret Paston . </font> PASTON,I,95.031.549

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaund me to yow , letyng yow wete +tat the vndershreve doughtyth
hym of John Berney ; wherfore I pray yow bryng hem to-gedyr and set hem
acord if ye can , so +tat the seyd vndershreve be sure +tat he shall
not be hurt be hym ner of hys cuntrymen . PASTON,I,95.031.550

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf he woll not , lete hym verely vndyrstonde +tat he shall be
compellyd to fynd hym suerte` of the pes , magry in hys heed ;
PASTON,I,95.031.551

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat shall nowther-1 be profitabyll ner worchepfull .
PASTON,I,95.031.552

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And lete hym wete +tat there have be many compleyntes of hym be +tat
knavyssh knyght Ser Miles Stapilton , as I sent yow word before ;
PASTON,I,95.031.553

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he shall come to hys excuse wele jnow so he have a mannys hert ,
PASTON,I,95.031.554

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the seyd Stapylton shall be vndyrstand as he ys , a fals shrewe .
PASTON,I,95.031.555

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he and hys wyfe and other have blaveryd here of my kynred in
hodermoder , PASTON,I,95.031.556

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but be +tat tyme we have rekned of old dayes and late dayes myn shall
be found more worchepfull thanne hys and hys wyfes ,
PASTON,I,95.031.557

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys I woll not for <P_I,96> hys gilt gypcer . PASTON,I,96.031.558

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also telle the seyd Berney +tat the shreve ys in a dought whedyr he
shall make a newe eleccion of knyghtes of the shyre be-cause of hym and
Grey , where-in it were bettyr for hym to have the shreves good wyll .
PASTON,I,96.031.559

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , me thynkyth for quiete of the cuntre` it were most worchepfull
+tat as wele Berney as Grey shuld get a record of all suche +tat myght
spend xl s. a yere +tat were at the day of eleccion , whech of them
+tat had fewest to geve it vp as reson wold

. PASTON,I,96.031.561

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London on Relyk Sonday . PASTON,I,96.031.562

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , +tat ye send a-bought for syluer acordyng to the old bylle +tat
I sent yow from Lynne . PASTON,I,96.031.563

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_031:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston PASTON,I,96.031.564

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_032> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_WIFE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,96>

{ED:59._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1461,_1_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my mastres Paston and Richard Calle . </font>
PASTON,I,96.032.565

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
j. First , that Richard Calle fynde the meane that a distresse may be
taken of such bestes as occupie the ground at Stratton , and that
cleyme and $contynuans be made of my possession in any wise and that
thei be not suffrid to occupie with-owt thei compoune with me ; and
that aftir the distresse taken the vndirshreve be spoke with-all that
he make no replevyn with-out agrement or a-poyntement taken , that the
right of the lond may be vndirstand . PASTON,I,96.032.566

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ij. Item , I here sey the peple is disposed to be at the shire at
Norwich on Sen Lauerauns Day for th'affermyng of that thei have do
afore , wherof I hold me wele content if thei do it of her owne
disposicion ; PASTON,I,96.032.567

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I woll not be the cause of the labour of hem ner ber no cost of hem
at <P_I,97> this tyme , PASTON,I,97.032.568

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be +te lawe I am suer befor , PASTON,I,97.032.569

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am wel a-payed it shall be on han halyday for lettyng of the
peples werk . PASTON,I,97.032.570

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I vndirstand ther shall be labour for a coroner that day ,
PASTON,I,97.032.571

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther is labour made to me for my good wyll here ,
PASTON,I,97.032.572

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wyll no thyng graunt with-owt the vnder-shreves assent ,
PASTON,I,97.032.573

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he and I thought that Richard Bloumvyle were good to that
occupacion . PASTON,I,97.032.574

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye shall vndirstand that the vndirshreve was some-what flekeryng
whill he was here , PASTON,I,97.032.575

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he informyd the Kyng that the last eleccion was not peasibill ,
PASTON,I,97.032.576

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the peple was iakkyd and saletted and riottously disposid ,
PASTON,I,97.032.577

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and put hym in fere of his lyfe ; wherefore I gate of hym the writte
whech I send yow herwith , to that entent thow any fals shrewe wold
labour he shuld not be sure of the writ . PASTON,I,97.032.578

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therfore ye most se that the vndirshreve have the writ at the day
in case the peple be gadered , PASTON,I,97.032.579

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thanne lete th'endentures be made vp {TEXT:or} er they departe .
PASTON,I,97.032.580

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
iij. Item , that ye remembyr Thomas Denys wyfe that her husbond had
diuers billes of extorcion don be Heydon and other , whech that he told
me that his seid wyfe beryid whan the rumour was , so that thei were ny
roten . PASTON,I,97.032.581

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Bidde her loke hem vp and take hem yow . PASTON,I,97.032.582

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
iiij. Item , as for the seyd distreynyng at Stratton , I wold that
Dawbeney and Thomas Bon shuld knowe the closes and the ground , that
thei myght attende ther-to that Richard were not lettyd of other
occupacions ; PASTON,I,97.032.583

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wold this were do as sone as is possibill or I come home .
PASTON,I,97.032.584

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not withstandyng I trowe I shall come home or the shire ,
PASTON,I,97.032.585

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I woll nat it be knowe till the same day , PASTON,I,97.032.586

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I woll not come there with-owt I be sent fore be the peple to
Heylisdoune . PASTON,I,97.032.587

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not withstandyng , and the peple were wele auertised at that day they
shuld be the more redy to shewe the oribyll extorcions and briborys
that hath be do vpon hem to the Kyng at his comyng , desyring hym that
he shuld not have in fauour the seyd extorcioners but compelle hem to
make amendes and sethe to the pore peple . PASTON,I,97.032.588

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
v. Item , that Berney and Richard Wright geve such folkys warnyng as
wyll compleyne to be redy with her billes if thei list to have any
remedy . PASTON,I,97.032.589

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
vj. vij. Item , that the maters ayens Ser Miles Stapilton at Aylesham
may be remembyrd . PASTON,I,97.032.590

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also if ye can be any craft get a copy of the bille that Ser Miles
Stapilton hath of the corte rolles of Gemyngham , that ye fayle not but
assay and do yowre devyr , PASTON,I,97.032.591

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for that shuld preve some men <P_I,98> shamefully fals .
PASTON,I,98.032.592

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Master Brakle` seyd he shuld a get oon of Freston . PASTON,I,98.032.593

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold he shuld assay , or ellys parauenture Skypwith or ellys Master
Sloley , PASTON,I,98.032.594

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if Stapilton were boren in hande that he shuld be founde fals and
ontrewe and first founder of that mater , he wold bothe shewe the bille
and where he had it . PASTON,I,98.032.595

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
viij. Item , I wold the prestis of Caster wer content for Midsomer term
. PASTON,I,98.032.596

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ix. Item , ther is a whith box with evidens of Stratton in on of the
canvas baggis jn the gret cofir or in the spruse chestt -
PASTON,I,98.032.597

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Call knowith it well ; PASTON,I,98.032.598

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therin is a ded of feffement and a letter of atorne` mad of +te
seyd londis in Stratton to John Dam , W. Lomnour , Richard Call , and
John Russe . PASTON,I,98.032.599

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold a new dede and letter of $atorne` were mad owth theroff be tho
feffees of +te same land to Thome Grene , $Thome Playter , +te $parson
of Heylisdon , Jacobo Gloys , klerk , $Johanni $Pamping , and that the
ded ber date nowh and +tat it be selid at +te next shire ; for than I
suppose +te seyd feffe`s will be there , if it may not be don er that
tym . PASTON,I,98.032.600

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold haue +te seyd dedis leyd in a box , both old and new , and left
secretly at Richard Thornis hows at Stratton , +tat whan I com $homward
I $myght fynd it ther and mak seson and stat to be take whil I wer
there . PASTON,I,98.032.601

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][&_RICHARD_CALLE]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:___CODE
LETTER:PASTON_032:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret at London on Lammes Day . PASTON,I,98.032.602

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_033> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,125>

{ED:71._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1465,_14_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaund me to yow , PASTON,I,125.033.603

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue reseyvid your lettir , which causith me to write in the lettir
+tat I send to yow , Daubeney , and Richard Calle certeyn articles
touchyng the rewle of myn hows and myn livelode , as ye shall
vndirstand whanne ye see hem . PASTON,I,125.033.604

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I send yow in the same <P_I,126> lettir a bille of all the malt
+tat remaynid at Mighelmes . PASTON,I,126.033.605

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose ye haue non such of it ; PASTON,I,126.033.606

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neuirthelesse it had be conuenient it had be had amonges your
seruauntes and yow . PASTON,I,126.033.607

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I woll +tat ye warne both Daubeney and Richard Calle +tat thei
disclose nat what malt I haue , ne what I shall selle , ne +tat on
marchaunt knowe nat what an other hath ; PASTON,I,126.033.608

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther is gret spies leid here at London for ingrosers of malt to
heyghne the prise , hough be it myne is not but of myn owne growyng and
my tenauntes . PASTON,I,126.033.609

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I lete yow wete I faile mony here PASTON,I,126.033.610

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and must nedys haue vp mony at this tyme for sped of my maters , so
+tat it may come vp savely whanne James Gresham and other attorne`s
come vp at the begynnyng of this terme , with whom Richard Calle may
come the same tyme . PASTON,I,126.033.611

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And paraventure some trusty carier may $come at this tyme ,
PASTON,I,126.033.612

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and with hym myght some mony come trussid in some fardell , not knowyng
to the carier +tat it is no mony but $some other clothe or vestement of
silk or thyng of charge . Wherfore take avise of such as ye $trust ,
and purvey +tat I may haue vp at this time j c li. of gold aftir the
old coynage and xx li. in grotes . PASTON,I,126.033.613

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , $jf I might haue sure cariage I wold haue heder all +te gylt
plate +tat Richard Call leyd vp - PASTON,I,126.033.614

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he can tell were , PASTON,I,126.033.615

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trowe ye know also ; PASTON,I,126.033.616

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ij potell pottis and a $rosting jron of siluer lyth at +te same
place ; PASTON,I,126.033.617

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it shuld stand me in gret $sted her if it mygth be do closly and
suerly an take trew $men of yowr cowncel . PASTON,I,126.033.618

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret +te morwe next after Sent Hillary . PASTON,I,126.033.619

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , leve a bill indorcid what ye take a-wey , if ye take any .
PASTON,I,126.033.620

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_033:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowr own , $&c . PASTON,I,126.033.621

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_034> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,126>

{ED:72._MARGARET_PASTON,_JOHN_DAUBENEY,_RICHARD_CALLE_1465,_15_JANUA
RY}

<P_I,127>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my mastres Margrete Paston and to my welbelovid frendes John
Daubeney and Richard Calle . </font> PASTON,I,127.034.622

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow see to the god gouernaunce of my housold and guydyng of
other thynges touchyng my profite , and +tat ye , with Daubeney and
Richard Calle and with other such of my frendes and seruauntes as can
avise yow aftir the mater requirith , wekely take a sad communicacion
of such thynges as be for to do , or oftenner and nede be ; takyng
avise of the master and of the viker and Ser Jamis in +tat is for to
say , aswell for provision of stuffe for myn howsold as for the
gaderyng of the reveneus of my livelode or greynes , or for settyng
awerk of my seruauntes , and for the more poletik meane of sellyng and
carijng of my malt and for all other thynges necessarj for to be do ,
so +tat whanne I come home I haue not an excuse seying +tat ye spoke to
my seruauntes and +tat Daubeney and Calle exkuse hem +tat +tei were so
besy thei myght not attende ; PASTON,I,127.034.623

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I woll haue my mater so guided +tat if on man may not attende
a-nother shall be comaundid to do it . PASTON,I,127.034.624

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if my seruauntes faile I had lever wage some other man for a iorny
or a season thanne my mater shuld be on-sped . PASTON,I,127.034.625

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for my livelode , I left with Daubeney a bille of many of my dettes
, wherby ye all myght haue be indused whedir ye shuld haue sent for
siluer . PASTON,I,127.034.626

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It liketh me evill to here $+tat my prestes and poremen be onpaijd ,
and $+tat no mony sent to me more thanne x mark be Berney of alle this
season . PASTON,I,127.034.627

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet therof telle Richard Calle he sent me viij nobills in goold for
v mark and +tat as longe as gold was bettir payment thanne siluer I had
neuir so moch gold of hym at onys ; PASTON,I,127.034.628

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and telle hym +tat I woll nat +tat he shall kepe +tat vse ,
PASTON,I,127.034.629

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I trowe my tenauntes haue but litell gold to pay .
PASTON,I,127.034.630

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , remembir yow in any howsold , felaship , or company +tat will be
of good rewle , purvyauns must be had +tat euery persone of it be
helpyng <P_I,128> and fortheryng aftir his discrecion and powyre ,
PASTON,I,128.034.631

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he +tat woll not do so without he be kept of almes shuld be put out
of the houshold or felachep . PASTON,I,128.034.632

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , where ye desire me +tat I shuld take your sone to grase , I woll
for your sake do the bettir , PASTON,I,128.034.633

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will ye knowe +tat he shall not be so oute of my favour that I will
suffir hym to mischefe without be eftsones his owne defaut .
PASTON,I,128.034.634

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And hough be it +tat in his presumptuose and ondiscrete demenyng he gaf
bothe me and yow cause of displeasir , and to other of my seruauntes
ille exsaumple , and $+tat also guided hym to all mennes vndirstondyng
+tat he was wery of bidyng in myn hows , and he not insurid of help in
any other place , yet +tat grevyth nat me so evill as doth +tat I neuir
coud fele ner vndirstand hym poletyk ner diligent in helpyng hym-self ,
but as a drane amonges bees whech labour for gaderyng hony in the
feldes and the drane doth nought but takyth his part of it .
PASTON,I,128.034.635

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if this myght make hym to knowe the bettir hym-self , and put hym
in remembrauns what tyme he hath lost and hough he hath leved in
jdelnes , and that he coud for this eschewe to do so heraftir , it
myght fortune for his best . PASTON,I,128.034.636

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I here yet neuir from no plase +tat he hath be in of any poletyk
demenyng or occupacion of hym ; PASTON,I,128.034.637

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in +te Kyngis hows he coud not put hym-self foorth to be in favour
or trust with any men of substauns +tat myght forther hym .
PASTON,I,128.034.638

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse , as for your house and myne , I purpose not he shall
come there , ner be my will non other , but if he can do more thanne
loke foorth and make a fase and countenauns . PASTON,I,128.034.639

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , send me word whedir my glasier hath do at Bromholm and at the
Friers of the south towne , and whedir he be paijd such mony as I sent
home word he shuld be paijd ; PASTON,I,128.034.640

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he haue do all he must haue more mony , PASTON,I,128.034.641

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I remembir nat certeynly what till I come home ,
PASTON,I,128.034.642

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I remembir nat what his bargeyn was for +te werk at the south towne
. PASTON,I,128.034.643

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trowe Master Clement can telle , and also fele hym-selff and send me
word . PASTON,I,128.034.644

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , +tat ye and Richard Calle and Daubeney see +tat Master Clement
and Master Braklee , which hath gret nede I wote well , and my prestes
and poremen be paijd , and also all other men ; and +tat ye see +tat I
be not callid on for +tat is my dewte` . PASTON,I,128.034.645

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also +tat ye see amonges yow +tat that is owyng me be not lost ne
forborn for lewdnes , for +tat shall bothe hurt me and do my tenauntes
harme . PASTON,I,128.034.646

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lete Richard Calle remembir +tat my fermour of Sweynesthorp is falle in
gret dette for defaut of callyng <P_I,129> vpon but be on yere ,
PASTON,I,129.034.647

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I deme +tat bothe John Willeys and my newe fermour of Snaylewell
arn like to be in the same case , and paraventure Aleyn of Gresham ,
and other . PASTON,I,129.034.648

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , remembir yow or evir I had a-doo with Fastolffes livelode ,
whill I toke hede to my livelode my-self it bothe-1 servid myn
exspenses at home and at London and all other charges ,
PASTON,I,129.034.649

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye leid vp mony in my cofirs every yere as ye knowe .
PASTON,I,129.034.650

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I wote well that the payment of my prestes and other charges +tat I
haue for Fastolffes livelode is not so gret as the livelode is , thow
part therof be in trobill . PASTON,I,129.034.651

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thanne consider that I had nought of my livelode for myn exspenses
at London this thwolmonyth day . PASTON,I,129.034.652

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye may verely vndirstand +tat it is not guided wittely ner discretly ,
PASTON,I,129.034.653

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore I pray yow hertly put alle your wittes to-gedir and see
for the reformacion of it . PASTON,I,129.034.654

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ye may remembre be +tis how ye shuld do if +tis wer yowres alone ,
PASTON,I,129.034.655

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so do now . PASTON,I,129.034.656

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tat ye woll remembir I haue sent yow all many lettirs touchyng
many maters , and also a bille now last by Pecok of erandes , desiryng
yow to see hem alle to-gedir and send me an answere articlerly ,
PASTON,I,129.034.657

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and such as ye can not spede at this tyme , lete hem be sped as sone as
ye may . PASTON,I,129.034.658

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tat ye se ouer my seyd $letters oft tymis til +tey be sped .
PASTON,I,129.034.659

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I remembir +tat myn heygh at Heylesdon the last yere was spent
and wasted foull reklesly , and colored vnder my shep .
PASTON,I,129.034.660

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow see +tat I be not servid soo this yere .
PASTON,I,129.034.661

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Pecok told me of a fermour +tat wold haue had Mautby Merssh ,
paying xij mark , as it went afore ; PASTON,I,129.034.662

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Richard Calle told me of on +tat wold pay more .
PASTON,I,129.034.663

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Burgeys paijd me first xij mark vj s. viij d. , PASTON,I,129.034.664

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I had the reed and the russhis PASTON,I,129.034.665

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he fond the shepherdes hyre in shakke tyme for my fold ;
PASTON,I,129.034.666

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sithen he brigged awey the shepherdes hyre and thanne the nobill ,
PASTON,I,129.034.667

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trowe he occupijth no lenger hym-self , PASTON,I,129.034.668

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I remembir he told me vij yere goo +tat my merssh shuld alwey apeyr
till the prime were past the nombre of xix and thanne it shuld amend a
ix or x yere , promittyng me he wold +tanne amend my ferme .
PASTON,I,129.034.669

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow help to lete it aswell as ye can , rather to hym +tanne
a-nother man if he woll do aswell , PASTON,I,129.034.670

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat ye comon with Pecok . PASTON,I,129.034.671

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the mater +tat I wrote of to the viker and other goode
felaws , desire hem +tat thei $be not to excessiue hasty in the mater
for non nede , but to do +tat thei may do +terin mesurably and wittely
<P_I,130> as sone as thei may ; PASTON,I,130.034.672

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for the respite of the mater here lete hem not care therfore ,
PASTON,I,130.034.673

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall do wel jnough . PASTON,I,130.034.674

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Telle hem for certeyn the mater is in as good case as {in}_P any such
mater was this xx wynter , as my counsell tellyth me ;
PASTON,I,130.034.675

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I woll be sure of all weyes +tat I may haue , and specially of the
declaracion of the trought of my mater and of my frendes .
PASTON,I,130.034.676

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the mater athwyx the parson of Mautby , Constantine , and
the viker of Derham , whedir it were small mater or gret I care not ,
PASTON,I,130.034.677

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am sure +tat too witnesse which I knowe were apposed +terin
before a juge sprituall , whech as I suppose was Master Robert Popy or
some other . PASTON,I,130.034.678

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The viker of Derham can telle , and so I trowe can John Wynter of
Mautby or other parysshons telle where the sute was athwyx hem ,
PASTON,I,130.034.679

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I can thynk it was in the chapitell . PASTON,I,130.034.680

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye can safely gette me what the witnesse seid I wold nomore ,
PASTON,I,130.034.681

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but do no gret cost on it . PASTON,I,130.034.682

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , recomaund me to Master Robert Popy PASTON,I,130.034.683

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and telle hym as for any thyng seid ayens hym in my mater , thow myn
aduersaris ment ontrewly thei prevyd nought but +tat he is a good man
and a worshipfull and a trewe . PASTON,I,130.034.684

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , if I haue any otes beside my stuffe , or may any bye aftir xiiij
d. , spare not PASTON,I,130.034.685

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take good mesure PASTON,I,130.034.686

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or bartirre for some other chafare , PASTON,I,130.034.687

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word hough moch ye may bye . PASTON,I,130.034.688

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it is told me ye make no wood nouther-1 at Caster ner Mautby ,
wherof I merveyle . PASTON,I,130.034.689

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembir yow we must brenne wood a-nodir yere . PASTON,I,130.034.690

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I send yow a titelyng +tat I mad whill I was at home , what malt
I had by estimacion , set at the lest . Wherfore see +tat Brigge make a
reknyng of his malt , and cast ye my book PASTON,I,130.034.691

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and loke what ye can amend it ; PASTON,I,130.034.692

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and apeyre it shall not if alle folkes haue do trewly ,
PASTON,I,130.034.693

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I suppose fewe of yow haue take any heed at it asmoch as I ded .
PASTON,I,130.034.694

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I may selle here for vj s. viij d. a quarter clene-fyed after
Royston mesure , whech is lesse thanne the water mesure of London .
PASTON,I,130.034.695

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Cambriggeshire malt is here at x s . PASTON,I,130.034.696

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Cast ye what I may selle of newe and old , savyng stuffe for myn hows .
PASTON,I,130.034.697

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , to remembir +tat Guton malt must be shipped at Blakeney .
PASTON,I,130.034.698

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Lynstedes malt at Walcote may be shipped there ;
PASTON,I,130.034.699

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
therfore cast amonges yow what malt may best be sold .
PASTON,I,130.034.700

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , if on man may not attende to gader siluer , sende a-nother ;
PASTON,I,130.034.701

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word what hath be reseyvid and spent . PASTON,I,130.034.702

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , +tat I haue an answere of alle my lettirs and of euery article
in hem . PASTON,I,130.034.703

<P_I,131>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , but if ye make such purvyauns +tat my prestes be paijd and
pore-men , beside other charges , and purvey mony for me beside ,
outher ye gader shrewdly PASTON,I,131.034.704

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellis ye spend lewdly . PASTON,I,131.034.705

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I sent a lettir by Rauff Greneakyr to James Gresham and to yow ,
which he promised me shuld be at Norwich on Wednesday aftir Thwelth Day
. PASTON,I,131.034.706

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And therin were diuers maters , and inespeciall of a mater +tat shuld
be in comunicacion on Tuisday last past bithwyx Yeluerton and Robert
Wyngfeld for Castern as in the seid lettir is specifijd .
PASTON,I,131.034.707

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is so +tat the seid Robard shall be here with-inne this ij dayes ;
PASTON,I,131.034.708

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if any thyng ye haue aspied of it send me word . PASTON,I,131.034.709

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , yong Knevet tellith me +tat he is my good frend ,
PASTON,I,131.034.710

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is come ridyng homward on Friday last was . PASTON,I,131.034.711

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow ley wetche whedir ye here any thyng +tat he medillyth hym in
+tat mater , PASTON,I,131.034.712

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word ; PASTON,I,131.034.713

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wold vndirstand whedir he were iust and trew or nought ,
PASTON,I,131.034.714

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that do , it shall not ligh in his power to hurt me .
PASTON,I,131.034.715

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But take ye hed PASTON,I,131.034.716

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and inquere , PASTON,I,131.034.717

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and knowe other mennes purpos , PASTON,I,131.034.718

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and kepe your intent as close as ye can ; PASTON,I,131.034.719

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and what some evir boost be mad , werk ye wisely PASTON,I,131.034.720

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and set not by it PASTON,I,131.034.721

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but send me word what ye here . PASTON,I,131.034.722

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Calle sendyth me word +tat Ser Thomas Howes is seke and not like
to askape it , PASTON,I,131.034.723

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Berney tellyth me the contrary ; wherfore I pray yow take hed
therat and lete me haue knowleche , PASTON,I,131.034.724

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for though I be not behold to hym I wold not he were ded for more
thanne he is worth . PASTON,I,131.034.725

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , take the viker the bille +tat I send yow herwyth .
PASTON,I,131.034.726

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , +tat ye , if ye can , fynd the meane to aspie what goodes Edmond
Clere eschetith of any mannes . PASTON,I,131.034.727

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , remembir well to take heed at your gates on nyghtes and dayes
for theves , PASTON,I,131.034.728

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei ride in diuers contre`s with gret felaship like lordes ,
PASTON,I,131.034.729

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ride out of on shire in-to a-nother . PASTON,I,131.034.730

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the Tuisday next aftir Sent Hillary .
PASTON,I,131.034.731

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_034:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , +tat Richard Calle brynge me vp mony so +tat my prestes be paijd
, and +tat he come vp suerly with other men and attornis .
PASTON,I,131.034.732

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_035> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,131>

{ED:73._MARGARET_PASTON,_JOHN_DAUBENEY,_RICHARD_CALLE_1465,_27_JUNE} _@

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my cosyn Margret Paston and to Jon Dawbeney and Richard Call
. </font> PASTON,I,131.035.733

<P_I,132>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$I $recummand me to yow , PASTON,I,132.035.734

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue receyvid a letter from yow and a-nother fro Richard Call be
John $Colman and on be Roos , PASTON,I,132.035.735

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue receyvid of Colman the plate and mony $acording $to Richard
Callis letteris . PASTON,I,132.035.736

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I can yow thonk ye send me word the $prise of corn .
PASTON,I,132.035.737

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for yowre sone : I lete yow wete I wold he dede wel ,
PASTON,I,132.035.738

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I vnderstand in hym no dispocicion of polecy ne of gouernans as man
of the werld owt to do , PASTON,I,132.035.739

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but only leuith , and euer hath , as man disolut , with-owt any
prouicion , PASTON,I,132.035.740

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ne that he besijth hym $nothinge to vnderstand swhech materis as a man
of lyuelode must nedis vnderstond . PASTON,I,132.035.741

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ne I vnderstond $nothing of what dispocicion he porposith {of}_P to be
, PASTON,I,132.035.742

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but only I kan thynk he wold dwell ageyn in yowr hows and myn , and
ther ete and drink and slepe . PASTON,I,132.035.743

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfor I lete yow wete I wold know hym or he know myn $entent , and
how wel he hath ocupijd his tym now he hath had leyser .
PASTON,I,132.035.744

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Euery pore man +tat hath browt vp his chylder to the age of xij yer
waytyth than to be holp and profitid be his childer ,
PASTON,I,132.035.745

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and euery gentilman that hath discrecion waytith that his ken and
seruantis +tat levith be hym and at his coste shuld help hym forthward
. PASTON,I,132.035.746

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for yowr sone , ye knowe well he neuer stode yow ne me in profite ,
ese , or help to valew of on grote , $sauyng at Calcot Hall whane $he
and hes brothir kept it on day ageyns $Debenham , PASTON,I,132.035.747

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet was it at iij +te coste that euer Debenham sones put hym to ;
PASTON,I,132.035.748

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be her police` they kepe Cotton at my cost and with the profitis of
the same . Wherfor geff hem no favor tyle ye feel what he is and will
be . PASTON,I,132.035.749

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Call sendith me word that Master Phylip hat entrid in Drayton in
my lord of Suffolk name , and hat odir purpose to entre in Heylisdon ,
PASTON,I,132.035.750

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he askith myn auyse ; whech is that ye conforte my tenantis and
help hem til I come hom , PASTON,I,132.035.751

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and let hem wet I shall not lese it ; and that the Dewk of Suffolk that
last dijd wold haue bouth it of Fastolff , PASTON,I,132.035.752

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for he mygth <P_I,133> not haue it so he claymyd +te maner ,
$seying it was on Polis , PASTON,I,133.035.753

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for his name was Poole he claymid to be eyr . PASTON,I,133.035.754

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was ansueryid +tat he com $nothing of that stok , and how someuer
were kyn to the Polis +tat owth it , it hurt not for it was laufully
bowth and sold ; PASTON,I,133.035.755

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he neuer kleymid it after . PASTON,I,133.035.756

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I am in purpose to take assise ageynse hem at tis tyme ,
PASTON,I,133.035.757

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ell I wold haue sent theder streyt be a letter of atorney to entre
in my name . PASTON,I,133.035.758

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuer the les ye be a gentilwoman , PASTON,I,133.035.759

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is worshep for yow to confort yowr tenantis ; wherfor I wold ye
myth ryd to Heylisdon and Drayton and $Sparham , and tari at $Drayton
and speke with hem , and byd hem hold with ther old master til I com ,
and that ye haue sent me word but late , wherfor ye may haue non answer
yet . PASTON,I,133.035.760

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And informe hem as I ha wrete to $yow with-in , PASTON,I,133.035.761

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sey oupinly it is a shame that any man shuld set anny lord on so
ontrwe a mater , and speciall a preste ; PASTON,I,133.035.762

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete hem wete as sone as I am com hom I shall see hem .
PASTON,I,133.035.763

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , that as for distreyn for rent or ferm , thow the Dewk had tytill
, as he hath not , he may non ask til the next rent day after his
entre` , that is Michelmes . PASTON,I,133.035.764

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And seye +tat ye will be paijd euerj pene` , PASTON,I,133.035.765

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and aske hem it , PASTON,I,133.035.766

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and make mech of men of Cossey becawse +tey wer owr welwilleris when we
wer neyboris ther ; PASTON,I,133.035.767

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete hem wete +tat +te begynneris of shech mater had neuer worchip
ner profite of me , ne shall , PASTON,I,133.035.768

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyr god will of yowr neyboris , &c. , PASTON,I,133.035.769

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $fynd all othir menis +tat ye kan to plese +te pepill .
PASTON,I,133.035.770

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And lete yowr tenantes wete that +te Dewke may neuer be lawe compel hem
to torn from me , PASTON,I,133.035.771

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and do all so well as ye can . PASTON,I,133.035.772

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if any entyr be mad in $Heylisdon , shuff him owt
PASTON,I,133.035.773

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and set sum man to kepe +te $place if ned be , not $with-standing it
longith not to +te maner . PASTON,I,133.035.774

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I wold fayn haue sum man to be bayle` of Heylisdon and Drayton ,
&c. , +tat mygth go amongis the tenantis ; PASTON,I,133.035.775

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ell I wolld han Richard Charllis to go among hem tyl I com hom ,
and also Richard Call whan he may . PASTON,I,133.035.776

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he sent me word that the tenantis of Drayton wold not come to
the Dewkis cort , PASTON,I,133.035.777

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if +tey will be so $stedfast to me and kepe hem <P_I,134> strawnge
and froward from the Dewkis cowncell , all this mater shall turn to a
jape and not hurt hem ner , PASTON,I,134.035.778

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if $+tey be $wauering it shall hurt hem . PASTON,I,134.035.779

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I lete yow wete +tis is do to cause me to seese my labor ayens
hym for Dedham , $whech I wil not for it . PASTON,I,134.035.780

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,134.035.781

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret the Thursday be-for Sent Petris Day . PASTON,I,134.035.782

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_035:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , tel Richard Call jf $I haue $wittenessis redy I wol spede this
mater spirituall befor Estern . PASTON,I,134.035.783

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_036> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,134>

{ED:74._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1465,_13_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my cosyn Margret Paston . </font> PASTON,I,134.036.784

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recummand me to yow PASTON,I,134.036.785

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thank yow of yowr labowr and besynes with +te vnruly felechep that
cam befor yow on Monday last past , wherof I herd report be John Hobbis
; PASTON,I,134.036.786

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in god feyth ye aquyt yow rygth wel and discretly , and hertyly to
yowr wurchep and myn and to +te shame of yowr aduersarijs .
PASTON,I,134.036.787

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I am wel content +tat ye avowid +tat ye kept possescion at Drayton
, and so wold doo ; wherfor I pray yow make yowr word god if ye may ,
PASTON,I,134.036.788

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at +te lest let myn aduersarijs not haue it in pees if ye may .
PASTON,I,134.036.789

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jon Hobbys tellith me +tat ye be seekly , whech me lekith not to here ,
PASTON,I,134.036.790

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$praying yow hartyly +tat ye take what may do yow eese and spare not ,
and in any wyse take no thowth ne to moch labor for +tes materis , ne
set it not so to yowr hert +tat ye fare +te wers for it .
PASTON,I,134.036.791

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te mater , so +tey ouercome yow not with fors ne bosting I
shall have +te maner sewrlyer to me and myn +tan +te Dewk shall haue
Cossey , dowt ye not . PASTON,I,134.036.792

<P_I,135>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And jn cas I come not hom within thre wekis , I pray yow come to me ;
PASTON,I,135.036.793

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Wykes hath promisid to kepe the plase in yowr absens .
PASTON,I,135.036.794

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuertheles , whan ye come set it in sech rewle as {in}_P ye seme best
and most suer bothe-1 for Castre and Heylisdon , if +te werre hold .
PASTON,I,135.036.795

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In cas ye haue pees , send me word . PASTON,I,135.036.796

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for that it is desyrid I shuld shew my tytill and $euydens to +te
Dewk , me $thinkyth he had euyll cowncell to entre in opon me $trusting
I shuld shew hym euydens . PASTON,I,135.036.797

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ye seme it may do yow god or eese , PASTON,I,135.036.798

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
lete my lord of Norwich wet that +te maner of Drayton was a marchantis
of London callid Jon Heylisdon longe er any of +te Polis +tat +te seyd
Dewk comyth of wer borne to any lond in Norffolk or Suffolk ;
PASTON,I,135.036.799

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if +tey wer at that tyme born to no lond , how may +te seyd Dewk
klaym Drayton be +tat pedegre` ? PASTON,I,135.036.800

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +te seyd John Heylisdon , he was a por man born ,
PASTON,I,135.036.801

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and from hym +te seyd maner dessendid to Alise his dowtyr , hos estat I
haue ; PASTON,I,135.036.802

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose +te seyd Dewk comyth not of hem . PASTON,I,135.036.803

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the pedegre` of +te seyd Dewk , he is sone to William
Pool , Dewk of Suffolk , sone to Mychell Pool , Erl of Suffolk , sone
to Mychel Pool , +te furst Erl of Suffolk of +te Polis , mad be King
Richard seth my fader was born . PASTON,I,135.036.804

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seyd furst Mychell was sone to on William Pool of Hull , whech
was a wurchepfull man grow be fortwne of +te werld ,
PASTON,I,135.036.805

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he was furst a marchant and after a knygth , PASTON,I,135.036.806

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and after he was mad baneret . PASTON,I,135.036.807

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if any of +tees hadde +te maner of Drayton I woll los c li. , so
+tat any persone for +te Dewk will be bond in as mech to proue +te
contrary . PASTON,I,135.036.808

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I wot weel +te seyd Dewkis cowncell wil not claym +te seyd maner be
+te tytill of +te fader of +te seyd William Pool . PASTON,I,135.036.809

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And what +te fader of +te seyd William was , as be +te pedegre` mad in
+te seyd last Dewkis fadiris daijs , I know rygt weell ; wherof I
jnformyd Herry Boteler to tell my old lady of Suffolk , be-cawse he is
of her cowncell , PASTON,I,135.036.810

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and more will I not tell in +tes mater but if I be desyrid or compellid
. PASTON,I,135.036.811

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , let my lord of Norwich wete +tat it is not $profitable ner +te
comen well of gentilmen that any jentilman shuld be compellid be an
entre` of a lord to shew his evidens or tytill to his lond ,
PASTON,I,135.036.812

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ner I nil not begine +tat exsample ne thralldam of gentilmen ner of
othir . PASTON,I,135.036.813

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is god a lord take sad cowncell or he begyne any sech mater .
PASTON,I,135.036.814

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te Poolis that owth Drayton , if +ter were c of hem leuyng
, as +ter is non , yet haue they no tytill to +te seyd maner .
PASTON,I,135.036.815

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,135.036.816

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret +te Satirday , &c . PASTON,I,135.036.817

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowr Jon Paston PASTON,I,135.036.818

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow be as mery with yowr feluchep as ye kan .
PASTON,I,135.036.819

<P_I,136> AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item I send hom writt and proses for $yowr seruantis and myn .
PASTON,I,136.036.819

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I may sell $yowr woll for xl d. +te ston redi mony , as
Arblaster can tell yow , and malt for iiij s. +te quarter at daijs xxj
for xx deliuerid of Yermoth mesur . PASTON,I,136.036.820

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye fayle mony ye most make it of yowr wole or malt .
PASTON,I,136.036.821

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send yow hom writtis of repleuin for +te shep and +te hors +tat wer
take , PASTON,I,136.036.822

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and avise yow lete +te writtis be deliuerd be-for my lord of Norwich
and god rekord ; PASTON,I,136.036.823

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_036:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye may make men with fors to take +te catell $ageyn be waran of
repleuyn , spar not rather than fayle . PASTON,I,136.036.824

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_037> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,136>

{ED:75._MARGARET_PASTON,_JAMES_GRESHAM_RICHARD_CALLE_1465,_7_AUGUST} _@

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my mastresse Margret Paston , James Gresham , and Richard
Calle . </font> PASTON,I,136.037.825

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaund me to yow , PASTON,I,136.037.826

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue reseyvid ij lettirs from John Russe wherin he remembirth me
that I shuld owe hym xix li. or ther-upon for diuers parcelles whech he
seith he shuld haue deliuerid in-to myn hows , wherof he seith xiiij
li. was deliuerid in-to myn howse ij yere $goo and that I had a bille
deliuerid me therof , and the remnaunt sithen , and desireth of me
payment of the seid xix li. ; wherfore I $certifye yow as I vndirstand
in the mater . PASTON,I,136.037.827

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye may lete John Russe come to yow and take such a direccion in the
mater as reason and trought woll . PASTON,I,136.037.828

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I lete yow wete that abought ij yere goo the seid John Russe deliuerid
me first a bille of the seid xiiij $li. , PASTON,I,136.037.829

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I examined the parcelles ; PASTON,I,136.037.830

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as I remembir xj li. was my dewte` , wherof the certeyn somme is
writen in my blak book of foreyn reseytes that yere ,
PASTON,I,136.037.831

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the remnaunt was Richard Calles dewte` , wherof he was allowed ,
savyng a part was Elys dewte` . PASTON,I,136.037.832

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And <P_I,137> as for the seid xj li. , I offerid the seid John Russe
payment in hand at +tat tyme PASTON,I,137.037.833

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desired hym he shuld nomore send in-to myn howse ,
PASTON,I,137.037.834

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and warnyd yow and Richard that ye shuld nomore stuffe take in-to myn
hows without ye paijd in hand , nowther of hym ner of non other .
PASTON,I,137.037.835

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the seid John Russe praijd me to remembir that I had graunted hym
the maner of Akthorp in Leystoft at a certeyn prise , as it apperyd by
writyng vndir my seall , PASTON,I,137.037.836

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desired me that I wold take the seid somme in party of payment .
PASTON,I,137.037.837

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I told hym that , as for such mony that shuld come from hym for
that lond , I wold take it of hym and ley it vp by the self , that I
myght purchase other lond therwith , bicause I wold lesse Fastolffes
lyuelode for the college ; PASTON,I,137.037.838

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I wold pay hym his dewte` without any stoppage .
PASTON,I,137.037.839

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he thanne desired me to take +tat same xj li. and ley it vp to the
same vse , seying to me that it was as good to do so as I for to take
it hym and he to take it me ayen . PASTON,I,137.037.840

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus he and I agreed and departed , PASTON,I,137.037.841

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thanne he praijd me to take more chafar of hym , whech I denyed .
PASTON,I,137.037.842

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And nough I merveyll what shuld cause hym to aske mony for that dewte`
. PASTON,I,137.037.843

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirethelesse I deme he supposith that he coud not opteyne his bargeyn
by me bicause of the trobill that it standyth in , PASTON,I,137.037.844

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for that or for some other cause he repentyth his bargeyn
PASTON,I,137.037.845

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and woll nomore of it . Wherfore send for hym , and take James Gresham
or some of your frendes and Richard Calle , and fele what he menyth ;
PASTON,I,137.037.846

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye can fynd hym disposed to leve his bargeyn , yet though I
myght kepe stille the seid mony , I wold he shuld not lese therby .
PASTON,I,137.037.847

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse , if he woll refuse his bargeyn , thanne take ayen the
writyng that he hath of that bargeyn and a writyng of his hand that he
dischargyth me of the graunt that I mad hym of that same bargeyn .
PASTON,I,137.037.848

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thanne loke that ye enquere what mony he hath reseyvid of the seid
maner in my tyme , wherof the ferme is vj li. yerly , whech I suffird
hym to occupie to his owne vse by fors of the seid bargeyn all my tyme
; PASTON,I,137.037.849

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and aftir the parcellis cast what I haue had of hym ,
PASTON,I,137.037.850

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
abbate +terof the mony that he hath reseyvid of the seid maner and also
as moch of the xiiij li. as the seid Richard Calle and Elys owen ,
wherof he is allowid , PASTON,I,137.037.851

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thanne see that the seid John Russe be content of the remnaunt of
his parcellis that is dew by me ; PASTON,I,137.037.852

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but loke ye pay non other mennes dewte`s . PASTON,I,137.037.853

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also the seid John Russe writyth in his lettir that , rather thanne he
shuld fayle this mony , that I wold lend hym asmoch to pay ayen at
Cristemasse ; wherfore , if he leve his bargeyn , I woll ye lend hym
asmoch mony over his dewte` as shall make vp xx li. , takyng of hym
suerte` to pay ayen at Cristemasse , as he writyth .
PASTON,I,137.037.854

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In case be that he will kepe stille his <P_I,138> bargeyn , thanne ye
may answere hym it is no reason that he shuld aske me any part of that
mony ayen , PASTON,I,138.037.855

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he owyth that and moch more . PASTON,I,138.037.856

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the seyd John Rus sent me heder a man for +tis mater only
with-in thes ij daijs , wherfor let him know an $ansuer betymes ,
PASTON,I,138.037.857

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I fel well he hath mad a gret bargen but late wherfor he hath mor
nede of mony now ; PASTON,I,138.037.858

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wol do for hym that I may resonably . PASTON,I,138.037.859

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuertheles his $wryting merweylith me that he askith +tis mony as
dewte` whech he toke me for parte of my payment . PASTON,I,138.037.860

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I deme it comith not all of his owne disposiciun . PASTON,I,138.037.861

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Inquier ye that ye $can what it menith . PASTON,I,138.037.862

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,138.037.863

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret +te Wednisday nex Lammes . PASTON,I,138.037.864

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Yowris John Paston PASTON,I,138.037.865

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]_&:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_037:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In cas ye han Drayton in any quiete , take sewerte` of yowr tenantis
for paiment , as I haue wret befor . PASTON,I,138.037.866

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_038> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,138>

{ED:76._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1465,_7_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my cosyn Margret $Paston , at Heylisdoune . </font>
PASTON,I,138.038.867

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaund me to yow , PASTON,I,138.038.868

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for the letter that I send yow touchyng John Russe , I woll that
ye and your counsell see it openly , PASTON,I,138.038.869

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and kepe this bille to your-self or to some secret frend of your .
PASTON,I,138.038.870

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray yow remembir ij thynges : PASTON,I,138.038.871

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
on , if ye fynd hym in any maner wise disposed to leve his bargeyn ,
take it at his offer PASTON,I,138.038.872

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take ayen the writyng that he hath of that bargeyn , or a writyng
of his owne hand of relesyng his bargeyn to me ; PASTON,I,138.038.873

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for paraventure at this tyme he woll be glad to leve his bargeyn , as I
vndirstand , PASTON,I,138.038.874

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whanne he sethe that I haue peas he woll calle ther-on ayen ,
wherfore I pray yow werk wisely herin , PASTON,I,138.038.875

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he may in no maner wise aske the mony of me and kepe his bargeyn ,
PASTON,I,138.038.876

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hath diuers <P_I,139> tymes desired me to haue take of hym more
stuffe +terfore ; PASTON,I,139.038.877

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
a-nother , as sone as ye may , or ye breke this mater with John Russe ,
make due serche with the fermours at Akthorp what mony Russe hath
reseyvid there in my tyme : that is to sey for Mighelmes the first ,
the ij , iij , iiij yeres of Kyng E. , of whech he hath reseyvid ij
paymentes , that is xij li. at the lest , or er the maner was trobelid
by Jenney or Yeluerton . PASTON,I,139.038.878

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I deme that he hath reseyvid some sithen , but that he kepith
counsell . PASTON,I,139.038.879

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , for asmoch as Ser Thomas Howes gaderid for the xxxix yere of
Kyng Herry , the seid John Russe woll , vnder colour of that , surmytte
that he reseyvid in my tyme was therfore ; wherfore ye must make a
serche what he hath reseyvid sith Ser John Fastolff dyed , and what
tyme , PASTON,I,139.038.880

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therupon ye shall vndirstand what he hath reseyvid for me and what
for hym . PASTON,I,139.038.881

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in case he hath reseyvid xij li. and Richard hath paijd hym his
dute` as he promised , thanne growyth nat to John Russe past iiij or v
li . PASTON,I,139.038.882

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwithstandyng , fare fayre with hym and resonabilly , so +tat he leve
his bargeyn , PASTON,I,139.038.883

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lend hym the remnaunt of the xx li. vpon suerte` for xx li .
PASTON,I,139.038.884

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he desireth to haue outher-1 by dewte` or borowyng at this tyme .
PASTON,I,139.038.885

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he that shall speke with the fermours of Akthorp , whos name is
Langham , he must inquere generally what mony he hath paijd to all men
sith Ser John Fastolff dyed , and see his billes of payment and take
therof a titelyng . PASTON,I,139.038.886

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Calle hath a bille of parcellis of euery mannes ferme ,
PASTON,I,139.038.887

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he can serche this best in case he be not to favorabill to John
Russe ; wherfore I remitte this to your discrecion .
PASTON,I,139.038.888

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I suppose John Russe woll telle yow what he hath reseyvid ,
PASTON,I,139.038.889

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for $I haue bifore this tyme wretyn by his seying what he had reseyvid
, PASTON,I,139.038.890

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose and he remembird that he seid to me he wold not aske his
mony in this forme . PASTON,I,139.038.891

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse it shall do good so he leve his bargeyn by this meane .
PASTON,I,139.038.892

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I merveyll that I here no tidyngges from yow hough ye haue do at the
assises . PASTON,I,139.038.893

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The berer of this lettir is a comon carier PASTON,I,139.038.894

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was at Norwich on Satirday , PASTON,I,139.038.895

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and brought me lettirs from other men ; PASTON,I,139.038.896

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but your seruauntes inquere nat diligently after the comyng of cariers
and other men . PASTON,I,139.038.897

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the Wednesday next after Lammes Day .
PASTON,I,139.038.898

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye shall haue lettirs of me this weke . PASTON,I,139.038.899

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_038:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston PASTON,I,139.038.900

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_J1PASTON> <L_PASTON_039> <A_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1421>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,140>

{ED:77._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1465,_20_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my cosyn Margret Paston . </font> PASTON,I,140.039.901

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn owne dere souereyn lady , I recomaund me to yow
PASTON,I,140.039.902

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thank yow of the gret chere +tat ye mad me here , to my gret cost
and charge and labour . PASTON,I,140.039.903

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nomore at this tyme but that I pray yow ye woll send me hedir ij elne
of worsted for doblettes to happe me this cold wynter , and that ye
inquere where William Paston bought his tepet of fyne worsted whech is
almost like silk ; PASTON,I,140.039.904

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if that be moch fyner thanne +tat ye shuld bye me after vij or viij
s. , thanne bye $me a quarter and the nayle therof for colers , thow it
be derrer thanne the tother , PASTON,I,140.039.905

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wold make my doblet all worsted for worship of Norffolk rather
thanne like Gonnores doblet . PASTON,I,140.039.906

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the mater of the ix=xx= li. askyd by my lady of Bedford
for the maner of Westthurrok , where as Ser Thomas Howes seith that he
hath no writyng therof but +tat Ser John Fastolff purchased the seid
maner and paijd certeyn mony in ernest , and aftirward grauntyd his
bargeyn to the Duc of Bedford , and so the mony +tat he toke was for
the mony that he had paijd ; paraventure Ser Thomas hath writyng therof
PASTON,I,140.039.907

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and knowyth it not , PASTON,I,140.039.908

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if ther be any such mony paijd vpon any bargeyn he shall fynd it in
Kyrtelyngges bookes +tat was Ser John Fastolffes reseyvour .
PASTON,I,140.039.909

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And it was abought such tyme as the Duc of Bedford was last in Inglond
, whech as it is told me was the viij yere of Kyng Herry the Fift or
the viij yere of Kyng Herry the Sext , PASTON,I,140.039.910

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the somme that he paijd for the seid bargeyn was ccc mark .
PASTON,I,140.039.911

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he shall fynd , the xxij yere of Kyng Herry or therabought , in
the acomptes of on of Fastolffes reseyvours at London , that ther was
take of Ser Thomas Tyrell and of the Duchesse of Excestre , that was
wif to Ser Lowes John , fermours of the seid maner , certeyn mony for
repayment of part of the seid ccc mark . PASTON,I,140.039.912

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he shall fynd in yeres after +tat , or in that yere or
there-aboutes , that Ser John Fastolff reseyved mony of my Lord Revers
+tat now is , by the name of Richard Wydevile , <P_I,141> for his owne
dette dew to Ser John Fastolff . Wherfore if Ser Thomas be trewe to his
master lete hym do his devoir to make +tat Worseter , whech is vphold
be hym with the dedes goodes , to be trewe to his master ;
PASTON,I,141.039.913

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellis it is tyme for Ser Thomas to forsake hym and help to punyssh
hym , PASTON,I,141.039.914

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or men must sey that Ser Thomas is not trewe . PASTON,I,141.039.915

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And more-ouer lete Ser Thomas examine what he can fynd in this mater
that I sent hym word of , whech mater he shall fynd in the seid
reseyvours bookes , if he list to seke it . PASTON,I,141.039.916

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , wete of hym whedir any writte of sub pena cam to hym therfore .
PASTON,I,141.039.917

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I send hym a bille whech on Edmond Carvyle for Robert Otteley
askyth of Ser John Fastolff , of whech , aswell as of a bille askyd by
on Fraunses for makyng of houses in Southwerk , lete send hedir an
answere ; PASTON,I,141.039.918

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for and I coud answere hem I wold not send to hym .
PASTON,I,141.039.919

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that Richard Calle , or who so evir goo to hym of my seruauntes ,
lete hym vndirstand that such brethelles as be abought Ser Thomas wene
that I sent to hym for maters of myn owne , and that I myght not
forbere his frenship , whech is no-thyng so ; PASTON,I,141.039.920

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it lay in his power to avayle me an c li. , as he can not avayle
me xx s. , I wold $not send to hym whill he is cuppilled with such
felaship as {with}_P he is . Wherfore he that shuld speke with hym were
best to mete with hym at a sodeyn , where he were with some
substanciall man that coud informe hym what were his trought to do in
the mater ; PASTON,I,141.039.921

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it grevyth me full evill to send often to hym till he be of a
sadder demenyng . PASTON,I,141.039.922

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , if any answere I shall haue in this mater I must haue it at the
ferthest by that tyme as James Gresham shall come hedir ,
PASTON,I,141.039.923

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for that tyme must I geve an answere ; PASTON,I,141.039.924

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye can get it ere , send it . PASTON,I,141.039.925

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , if the seid Ser Thomas be of good disposicion lete hym be spoke
to that he be ware of the evidens of Dedham . PASTON,I,141.039.926

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He told John Pampyng that he had byd John Russe deliuere hem me ,
PASTON,I,141.039.927

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and nough he is turnyd PASTON,I,141.039.928

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and kepyth hem stille ; PASTON,I,141.039.929

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I dought lest by such as be abought hym it shall rather be appeyrid
thanne amendyd , PASTON,I,141.039.930

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for this xx wynter hath Worseter vsed to bye and selle evidens .
PASTON,I,141.039.931

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ye can get hem of hym , take hem . PASTON,I,141.039.932

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , get yow copys of the jnquisicions take bifore Master John Selot
for Drayton chirch and bifore Edmond Clere , exchetour , if any such
were takyn ; PASTON,I,141.039.933

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also inquere what day Emond Clere satte , PASTON,I,141.039.934

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is bound to put in the inquisicion with-in a monyth after it is
taken in the peyne of xl li . PASTON,I,141.039.935

<P_I,142>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I sent yow word ye shuld inquere what bribes or rewardes Edmond
Clere toke of outlawed men in Norffolk , or any other fals prattes that
he hath doon . PASTON,I,142.039.936

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dought ye nat he woll not answere of half the good that he hath taken
of outlawed men , if it were well inquered . PASTON,I,142.039.937

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
James Gresham shall cone telle where ye shall best inquere ,
PASTON,I,142.039.938

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and such as ye can knowe send me iustly word . PASTON,I,142.039.939

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , that the exspence mad by Daubeney for myn howsold be mad vp ,
and that Daubeney be charged with all such somes as ye or I or Richard
Calle haue paijd for hym , and ye for that he hath paijd for yow .
PASTON,I,142.039.940

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for that I paijd of that was Daubeneys charge , I toke Calle therof
a bille , wherof lete Calle send me ayen a copy , and also send me the
copy of the bille of your reseytes whech ye haue hom with yow from hens
; PASTON,I,142.039.941

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that Daubeney and ye and Call send me a remembrauns of the
exspensis of myn housold and yowres , your children , and the college ,
and all other foreyn paymentes , and that in the makyng of Pecokkes
acompt such thynges as he hath paijd for the college or the housold be
mad as mony deliuerid to Calle or Daubeney , and that in ther acompt
thei to aske alowaunce of the paymentes by the handes of Pecok ,
PASTON,I,142.039.942

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I woll no-thyng haue charged nor discharged withinne the acomptes
of any maners but only such as longyth to the exspensis of the seid
maners . PASTON,I,142.039.943

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , that ye see all acomptes be mad vp , and in especiall for my
barly . PASTON,I,142.039.944

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwithstandyng , inasmoch that ye haue had in moch barly and greynes
for dettes of your tenauntes of Mautby , therfore Pecokes acompt must
be mad first , that such greynes as he hath deliuerid may be charged
vpon the maltster or vpon any other that haue reseyved it .
PASTON,I,142.039.945

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , lete Pecokkes acompt be mad aftir the forme of Norwodes acompt ,
as I suppose is wretyn in your bille of erandes . PASTON,I,142.039.946

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , take good heed at the charge and discharge of the acompt of
Fastolffes barly in all plases , PASTON,I,142.039.947

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye shall haue other increse there thanne ye shall haue at Mautby ;
PASTON,I,142.039.948

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the mesure of the barly in diuers plases is gretter thanne the
busshell at Caster , PASTON,I,142.039.949

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also ye take an hepe at the comb of fermes , whech in a gret somme
castith out a gret . PASTON,I,142.039.950

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also the maltster must answere of the increse of maltyng acordyng to
old acomptes of Fastolffes , PASTON,I,142.039.951

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if Calle can not vndirstand +tat wele thanne ye may send for Barker
; PASTON,I,142.039.952

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye shall , whan ye haue mad all thyng redy to the acompt , for xl
d. haue hym a day or ij , PASTON,I,142.039.953

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he can as good skyll theron <P_I,143> as Bernard can on his sheld .
PASTON,I,143.039.954

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwithstandyng , the precedentes of Fastolffes acomptes can telle it
aswell as he if ther were any man coud vndirstand it .
PASTON,I,143.039.955

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , on the day after your departyng I reseyved lettirs by William
Roo from your sones to me and to yow and to Richard Calle , wherby on
of hem writyth +tat my lord of Norwich , by the meane of Master John
Selot , had geue a jugement in the mater of the presentacion for the
chirche of Drayton or $Eueret cam thedir . PASTON,I,143.039.956

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse I wote well the Bisshop may geve no jugement ,
PASTON,I,143.039.957

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther longyth no jugement to the mater . PASTON,I,143.039.958

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Paraventure he may amitte the Dukes presentacion and leve myn , in
which case I and Ser Thomas Howes must take an accion ayens the Duc and
the Bisshop and the prest , or ellis I shuld lese the patronage .
PASTON,I,143.039.959

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse , as for the Bisshop , so ye lete hym haue wetyng aforn
secretly and in jentil wise , he woll take no displeasir ;
PASTON,I,143.039.960

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it must be do for eschuyng of a gretter hurt . PASTON,I,143.039.961

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwithstandyng he shall bere no losse but if he woll . Wherfore send
me word betymes the very certeynte` what is doon in this mater and what
is the prestes name that the Duc presentid , and what is the prestes
name that I presentid ; PASTON,I,143.039.962

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that Ser Thomas Howes be felt of his disposicion , whedir he be of
hert to take and abide by an accion , as it is told me he woll .
PASTON,I,143.039.963

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if ye may fynd the meane that he may write a lettir to yow or me
therfore , or to speke to James Gresham therfore , and he be thorougly
felt in these maters aswell as in the maters wretyn in your bille of
erandes . PASTON,I,143.039.964

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me thynkyth and he were comond with-all bifore the prior of the White
Freres , or some other frend of yours , it shuld cause hym to be the
more substanciall in his answere . PASTON,I,143.039.965

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , beware and remembir hough Master John Selot hath deseyvid yow in
this mater . PASTON,I,143.039.966

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lerne wisdom therby PASTON,I,143.039.967

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forgete it neuir . PASTON,I,143.039.968

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , your seid sones write hedir +tat thei wold put some man in
Cotton betymes , and +tat your yonger sone seith he wold haue do it or
this tyme but that he hath no mony in his purs to pay for his costes
thedir , wherfore he desirith to haue some mony therfore till he myght
gadir it vp . Wherfore , if thei be go or whan thei goo , remembir hem
that thei haue diuers tymes had mony thedirward and do right nought ,
and myn aduersaries sent thedir men without mony and had ther intent .
PASTON,I,143.039.969

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , hough be it that Mighelmesse payment may not be askyd till the
day , yet ther is arerages jnough to gader more thanne xx li. , as it
is told me . PASTON,I,143.039.970

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , lete your sone John the yonger wete +tat I reseyved his lettirs
and billes for the thyng +tat he serched fore , vndir his seall .
PASTON,I,143.039.971

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse <P_I,144> I remembir I fayle certeyn writyngges and
skrowes on paper and parchemyn touchyng the same mater , and in
especiall of the obites and $beryingis of diuers of the Poles and of on
Pole was a wolle marchaunt paijd gret customes to the Kyng ;
PASTON,I,144.039.972

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am in dought whedir your seid sone lokyd not iustly ther in the
box and bagge +tat I bad {in}_P hym , or ellis +tat it were medelid
with some other skrowes in the same , or ellis +tat it be in a bagge of
like maters in my reed chyste at Caster . Wherfore , if he may easely
come ther-to without tarying of his gretter maters , lete hym assay .
PASTON,I,144.039.973

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he shall fynde a dede how my fadir wass infeffid in +te maner of
Heylisdon and Drayton , whech I suppose be among +te euidens of
Heylisdon wher I wole haue +te copy . PASTON,I,144.039.974

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he sendyth me word that ther is a prest callid
{ED:LEFT}_CODE_NP-OB1 told Ser William Barbour that he hath speciall
evidens longyng to the manoir of Drayton , and that he seid he wold I
had hem , but he wold speke with me . Wherfore I pray yow lete Ser
William Barbour , with some other frend of yours , goo speke with the
seid prest and to fynd the meane that he wold deliuer yow the seid
evidens ; PASTON,I,144.039.975

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in case he woll not deliuer hem till $he hath spoke with me ,
thanne desire ye with some frend of yours to see hem ,
PASTON,I,144.039.976

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye seme thei be licly desire hym to come to London with on of my
men , and to pay for his costes to come hedir to me , and quite his
labour . PASTON,I,144.039.977

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But and ye may , take hem of hym , though ye apoynt to take hem hym
ayen or ellis to agree with hym therfore . PASTON,I,144.039.978

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuirthelesse , in the begynnyng lete hym be told +tat ye merveyll +tat
he shuld haue any evidens of that maner , PASTON,I,144.039.979

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye herd me sey +tat I had all the evidens of the maner .
PASTON,I,144.039.980

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And lete this be do by-tymes and wittely , PASTON,I,144.039.981

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be ware +tat this be not do of a sotilte` to fele whedir +tat I
wold inquere aftir any evidens for faylyng . PASTON,I,144.039.982

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I pray yow remembir and rede often my bille of erandes , and
this lettir , till it be don ; PASTON,I,144.039.983

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all such maters or articles as ye spede herof , crosse hem +tat ye
may knowe hem from tho +tat be not sped ; PASTON,I,144.039.984

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me answere of your good speed . PASTON,I,144.039.985

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , send me hedir the avise what your counsell thynkyth best for the
remedy of the chirch of Drayton . PASTON,I,144.039.986

<P_I,145>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Though I write right certeynly , if ye loke hem lightly and see hem
seld thei shall sone be forgete . PASTON,I,145.039.987

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I shall telle yow a tale : PASTON,I,145.039.988

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pampyng and I haue piked your male , and taken out pesis v ,
PASTON,I,145.039.989

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for vpon trust of Calles promise we may sone onthryve .
PASTON,I,145.039.990

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if Calle bryng vs hedir xx li. , ye shall haue your peses ayen good
and round ; PASTON,I,145.039.991

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> or ellis if he woll not pay yow the valew of the peses there ,
to the post do nayle his ere </poetry> , PASTON,I,145.039.992

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> or ellis do hym some other sorough </poetry> ,
PASTON,I,145.039.993

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> for I woll nomore in his defaut borough </poetry> ;
PASTON,I,145.039.994

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> and but if the reseyvyng of my livelod be bettir plyed , he
shall Cristes curs and myn clene tryed </poetry> . PASTON,I,145.039.995

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> And loke ye be mery and take no thought </poetry> ,
PASTON,I,145.039.996

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> for this ryme is cunnyngly wrought </poetry> .
PASTON,I,145.039.997

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My Lord Persy and all this house recomaund them to yow , dogge , catte
and mowse , PASTON,I,145.039.998

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wysshe ye had be here stille , PASTON,I,145.039.999

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the sey ye are good gille . PASTON,I,145.039.1000

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> Nomore to yow at this tyme </poetry> , PASTON,I,145.039.1001

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<poetry> but God hym saue +tat mad this ryme </poetry> .
PASTON,I,145.039.1002

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_039:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wret +te vigill of Sent $Mathew be yowr trew and trusti husbond , J. P.
PASTON,I,145.039.1003

<Q_PAS_A_1447?_FN_E1PASTON> <L_PASTON_040> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1425> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,147>

{ED:79._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PERHAPS_1447,_5_JULY}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> Tradatur Johanni $Paston of +te Inner In in the Temple att
London . </font> PASTON,I,147.040.1004

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worschipfull brothir , I recomaund me to yow , &c .
PASTON,I,147.040.1005

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I preye write to myn modre of your owne hed as for to consell her howh
+tat sche kepe her preuye and tell no body ryth nowth of her counsell ,
PASTON,I,147.040.1006

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for sche woll tell persones many of her counsell this day
PASTON,I,147.040.1007

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to-morwe sche woll sey be Goddis faste +tat the same men ben false
. PASTON,I,147.040.1008

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue seen parte of +te euydence PASTON,I,147.040.1009

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te maner hathe be purchasid be parcell and certeyn feffementis mad
of the auowson and certeyn pecis of lond enterlessant +te maner ,
PASTON,I,147.040.1010

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wote well ye haue on collaterall rellesse wyth a warente of on of
+te wyffys of Hauteyn of all +te holl maner . PASTON,I,147.040.1011

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Steward , +te chiffe constable , told me he was enpanellyd vp-on +te
assise be-twex yow and Frauncesse . PASTON,I,147.040.1012

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He axyd me counsell what he myth do +ter-jnne , PASTON,I,147.040.1013

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he told me it was take in Ser Thomas Tudham name .
PASTON,I,147.040.1014

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wold fayne be chalengyd . PASTON,I,147.040.1015

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I concellyd him swere the trowthe of the issue +tat he schuld be swore
to , PASTON,I,147.040.1016

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tanne he nedyd neuer to drede hym of noon atteynte .
PASTON,I,147.040.1017

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I yaue him this counsell and noon othir . PASTON,I,147.040.1018

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He enqueryd me of the rewle of myn master Danyell and myn lord of
Suffulke , PASTON,I,147.040.1019

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and askyd wheche I thowte schuld rewle in +tis schere ,
PASTON,I,147.040.1020

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd bothe , as I trowh , PASTON,I,147.040.1021

<P_I,148>

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he +tat suruyuyth to hold be +te uertue of +te suruyuyr , and he to
thanke his frendes and to aquite his enmyys . PASTON,I,148.040.1022

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So I fele by him he wold forsake his master and gette him a newh yf he
wyste he schuld rewle . PASTON,I,148.040.1023

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so wene I meche of all +te contre` is so disposyd .
PASTON,I,148.040.1024

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te Holy Trenyte` kepe yow . PASTON,I,148.040.1025

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrete at Norwiche on +te Wednysday after Seynt Peter , in hast .
PASTON,I,148.040.1026

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1425:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:26?
LETTER:PASTON_040:M4:1447?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your $brother E. Paston PASTON,I,148.040.1027

<Q_PAS_A_1452_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_041> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,149>

{ED:81._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1452,_16_JUNE}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To myn most reuerent and $wurchepful broder Jon Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,149.041.1028

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To myn most reuerent and wurchepful brodur . PASTON,I,149.041.1029

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recummend me hartely to +gow , desiryng speciali to here of +gowre
wellefare and prosperite` , qweche Almyty God contenu to +gowre gosteli
hele and bodili welfare : PASTON,I,149.041.1030

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it plese +gowre goode brodorod to here of myn wellefare , at +te
makyng of +tis bylle I was in good hele . PASTON,I,149.041.1031

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if it leke +gowre good brodorod to remembre +te letter +tat I sent
to +gow of +te noyse +tat was telde of +gow , +tat +ge schuld a be on
of +te capetayns of +te ryserse in Norfolk , and how +tat j scholere of
Cambryg , qweche is parsone of Welle , schuld an vtteryd ferthere to
+gowre grete schalndyr , besechyng +gow to vndyrstond +tat +te seyde
parsone of Welle was sone +tat tyme at Lundon , were he harde sey of j
swyre of ij c. marc be +gere +tat +ge and Master Thomas Wellys wolde
<P_I,150> sewe +te seyd parsone Welle for +gowre schalndyr .
PASTON,I,150.041.1032

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the seyde parsone come to Cambryg sothyn , PASTON,I,150.041.1033

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hathe pekyd a qwarell to on Mastyr Recheforthe , a knythys sone of
Norfolke , PASTON,I,150.041.1034

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd to $Rycheforthe +tat he had be cause that +ge schuld sewe hym
. PASTON,I,150.041.1035

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the seyd parsone Welle thretyd Rycheferthe +tat wat some euer +tat
+ge causyd parson Welle to lese be +gowre sewtys , +tat Rycheforthe
schul lese +te same to +te parson of Welle . Were-fore thys jentylman
Rycheforthe taket grete thowt , and pray me to wrythe to +gow +tat ye
wulde sese +gowre suthe tylle +te tyme +tat +ge wulde asyne +tat I
mythe speke wythe +gow , and odyr sundry haue speke wyth +gow of +te
same mater ; PASTON,I,150.041.1036

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for yt ware pithe` +tat Rycheforthe chuld haue ony hurthe there-by .
PASTON,I,150.041.1037

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseche +gow holde me excusyd thow I $wryth no better to +gow at thys
tyme , PASTON,I,150.041.1038

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in good feyth I had no leysere . PASTON,I,150.041.1039

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te $brynggar of thys letter can telle +gow +te same .
PASTON,I,150.041.1040

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue +gow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,150.041.1041

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Cambryg on Fryday senyth nexste be-fore Mydsomer Euyn .
PASTON,I,150.041.1042

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In case +ge come be Cambryg I schal telle +gow mo of it .
PASTON,I,150.041.1043

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sory I may wrythe no bettyr at +tis tyme , PASTON,I,150.041.1044

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I trvst +ge wyl be pacient . PASTON,I,150.041.1045

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:16
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_041:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be +gowre pore broder W. Paston PASTON,I,150.041.1046

<Q_PAS_A_1454_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_042> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,154>

{ED:83._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1454,_JULY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hys wurchypfull brodyr Jon Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,154.042.1047

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth wurchypfull broder , I recomande $me to +gow ;
PASTON,I,154.042.1048

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for tedyng , myn lord of +Gorke hathe take myn lord of Exsater
jn-to hys a-warde . PASTON,I,154.042.1049

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duke of Somerset js styll jn preson , jn werse case than {in}_P he
was . PASTON,I,154.042.1050

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr Jon Fastolf recomande hym to +gow , &c . PASTON,I,154.042.1051

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wyll ryde jn-to Norfolke ward as on Trusday , PASTON,I,154.042.1052

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wyll dwelle at Caster , and Skrop wyth hym .
PASTON,I,154.042.1053

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He saythe +ge are the hartyest kynysman and frynd +tat he knowyt .
PASTON,I,154.042.1054

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wulde haue +gow at Mawdeby dwellyng . PASTON,I,154.042.1055

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had gret chere of Byllyng be +te way , PASTON,I,154.042.1056

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me jn cownsayle wathe he sayd to Ledam .
PASTON,I,154.042.1057

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ledam wulde a do hys wyse to a mad a complent to $Prysothe jn +te
schere howse of +gow , PASTON,I,154.042.1058

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Byllyng consallyd hym to leve PASTON,I,154.042.1059

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tolde Ledam +ge and he were no felawys , PASTON,I,154.042.1060

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sayd to Ledam , ' Yt is the gyse of +gowre contre`-men to spend
alle the good they haue on men and leuery gownys and hors and harnes ,
and so ber yt owth for j wylle , PASTON,I,154.042.1061

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at the laste they arn but beggarys ; PASTON,I,154.042.1062

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so wyll +ge do . PASTON,I,154.042.1063

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wylde +ge schull do wyll , be-cause +ge are a felaw jn Grays In ,
were I $to was a felaw . PASTON,I,154.042.1064

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Paston , he ys a swyre of wurchyp , and of gret lyuelode ,
PASTON,I,154.042.1065

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wothe he wyll not spend alle hys good at onys ,
PASTON,I,154.042.1066

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he sparyt +gerely c mark or j c li . PASTON,I,154.042.1067

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He may do hys ennemy a scherewd turne and neuer fare the warse jn hys
howsholde , ner the lesse men a-bowthe hym . PASTON,I,154.042.1068

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Ge may not do so , but if yt be for j sesun . PASTON,I,154.042.1069

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I consayll +gow not to contenu long as +ge do . PASTON,I,154.042.1070

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wulle consalle +gow to seke reste wyt Paston . '
PASTON,I,154.042.1071

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I thankkyd Byllyng on +gowre behalfe . PASTON,I,154.042.1072

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue +gow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,154.042.1073

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be +gowre pore brodyr Wyllyam Paston PASTON,I,154.042.1074

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Meche odyr thyng I can telle and I had lesur . PASTON,I,154.042.1075

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_042:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Recomande me to myn suster Margeth $and myn cosyn Elyzabet Clyre , I
pray +gow . PASTON,I,154.042.1076

<Q_PAS_A_1454_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_043> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,155>

{ED:84._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1454,_6_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To myn rith wurchipfull broder Jon Paston be +tis delyueryd .
</font> PASTON,I,155.043.1077

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth wurchypfull broder , I recomande me to +gow , desiryng to here of
+gowre willefare . PASTON,I,155.043.1078

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Byllyng +te seriant hathe byn in his contre` , PASTON,I,155.043.1079

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he come to Lundon +tis weke . PASTON,I,155.043.1080

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He sent for me PASTON,I,155.043.1081

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ast me how I fard . PASTON,I,155.043.1082

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I tolde hym here is pestelens , PASTON,I,155.043.1083

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sayd I farid +te better . PASTON,I,155.043.1084

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was in good hele , PASTON,I,155.043.1085

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was noysyd +tat he was ded . PASTON,I,155.043.1086

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A toke me to him PASTON,I,155.043.1087

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ast how myn suster dede , PASTON,I,155.043.1088

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I anssweryd wyll , neuer better . PASTON,I,155.043.1089

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd he was wyth the Lord Gray , PASTON,I,155.043.1090

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they talkyd of j jantilman qweche is ward to myn lord ,
PASTON,I,155.043.1091

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I remembre he sayd it was Harry Gray that thei talkyd of .
PASTON,I,155.043.1092

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And myn lord sayd , ' I was besy wyth-jn +tis fewe days to a maryd hym
to a jantyll-woman jn Norfolke that schall haue iiij c marc. to hyr
mariage , PASTON,I,155.043.1093

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now a wyll not be me , PASTON,I,155.043.1094

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for iiij c marc. wulde do me hese PASTON,I,155.043.1095

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now he wulde haue his mariage mony hym-self ; PASTON,I,155.043.1096

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-fore ' , quoth he , ' he schall mary hymself for me . '
PASTON,I,155.043.1097

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tis wurdys had myn lord to Byllyng , as he tollde me .
PASTON,I,155.043.1098

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He vnderstod +tat myn lord laboryd for his owne a-vayle ,
PASTON,I,155.043.1099

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and consaylyd to byd here be wyse . PASTON,I,155.043.1100

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I thankkyd hym for hys good consayll . PASTON,I,155.043.1101

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent +gow an ansswere of +gowre letter of Ser Jon Fastolf comyng hom
, as he told me hem-self . PASTON,I,155.043.1102

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuer the lesse he bode lenger than he sayd hymself he schull a do .
PASTON,I,155.043.1103

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He tolde me he schulde make j ende be-twix Skrop and myn suster wulle
he is in Norfolke . PASTON,I,155.043.1104

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Many wulde it schulde not preue , PASTON,I,155.043.1105

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei say it is an onlykkely mariage . PASTON,I,155.043.1106

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In casse Cressener be talkyd of ony more , he is countyd a jantylmanly
man and a wurchepfull . PASTON,I,155.043.1107

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Ge knowe ho is most wurchipfull better than I . PASTON,I,155.043.1108

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At the reuerens of Good , drawe to summe conclusyun ,
PASTON,I,155.043.1109

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is time . PASTON,I,155.043.1110

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord Chanselere come not here sone I come to Lundun , nere myn lord
of Jorke . PASTON,I,155.043.1111

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord of Cantirbury hathe receyued hys crosse ,
PASTON,I,155.043.1112

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I <P_I,156> was wyth hym in the Kynggys chamer qwan he mad hys
homage . PASTON,I,156.043.1113

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I tolde Harry Wylton +te demenyng betwix the Kyng and hym ;
PASTON,I,156.043.1114

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it ware to long to wrythe . PASTON,I,156.043.1115

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the prist +tat dede areste me , I can not vnderstond +tat it is
+te pryste +tat +ge mene . PASTON,I,156.043.1116

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here is gret pestelens . PASTON,I,156.043.1117

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I purpose to fle in-to the contre` . PASTON,I,156.043.1118

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord of Oxforthe is come a-+gen fro the se PASTON,I,156.043.1119

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath geth hym lytyll thank in this countre` .
PASTON,I,156.043.1120

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Muche more thyng I wulde wrythe to +gow , PASTON,I,156.043.1121

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I lak lysore . PASTON,I,156.043.1122

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Harry Wylton sey the Kyng . PASTON,I,156.043.1123

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord of Ely hathe do hys fewthe` . PASTON,I,156.043.1124

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue +gow in hys blyssyd kepyng . PASTON,I,156.043.1125

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Lundon on the Fryday be-fore Owre Ladys Day the Natyuite` in
gret hast . PASTON,I,156.043.1126

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray recomand me to myn suster and to myn cosyn Clere .
PASTON,I,156.043.1127

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_043:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be +gowre $broder W. Paston PASTON,I,156.043.1128

<Q_PAS_A_1458?_FO_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_044> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1436>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,156>

{ED:85._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_PROBABLY_1458,_10_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To his rythe worchypffull and harthy wellebelouyd suster
Margere` Paston , dwellyng jn Norwyche . </font> PASTON,I,156.044.1129

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Rythe harthely well belouyd suster , I recomand me , &c. ;
PASTON,I,156.044.1130

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I haue receyued +gowre letteres . PASTON,I,156.044.1131

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And as fore myn nevewes , they lerne rythe well bothe ,
PASTON,I,156.044.1132

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and there gownys and there gere schall be mad for hem acordyng to +te
enthenthe of +gowre letter , PASTON,I,156.044.1133

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and all oder thynggys that behouyth on-to here profythe harddely to myn
powere . PASTON,I,156.044.1134

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And suster , God +gelde +gow for +gowre labore fore me for gaderyng of
myn mony . PASTON,I,156.044.1135

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I pray as sone as +ge receyuyth , send it heder be some trusty man
, PASTON,I,156.044.1136

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and +tat it plese to calle +tere-on , &c . PASTON,I,156.044.1137

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Myn suster and myn broder recomand hem to +gow bothe ,
PASTON,I,156.044.1138

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I may say to +gow jn counsayll sche is op-on poyn of mariage so
+tat moder and myn broder sett frendely and stedfastely there-on , leke
as I wothe well +ge wolld and it lay in +gow as it dothe jn hem , &c .
PASTON,I,156.044.1139

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray +gow do +gowre parthe to kall there-on . PASTON,I,156.044.1140

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
It were to long to wrythe on-to +gow all +te maner of demenyng of +tis
mater , PASTON,I,156.044.1141

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and there-for I haue spoke to Wyllyam Worsetere and to <P_I,157>
Wethewell to tell it +gow holly as it is . PASTON,I,157.044.1142

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I wothe ryth well $+gowr good labore may do moche ;
PASTON,I,157.044.1143

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and send me word how +ge here as hastely as +ge may .
PASTON,I,157.044.1144

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , Howard spak of a mariage be-twex his sone and myn nece Margere`
+gowre dothere . PASTON,I,157.044.1145

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
It were well do suche materes were nawthe sclawfully laboryd ;
PASTON,I,157.044.1146

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
it is wurchypffull , &c . PASTON,I,157.044.1147

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Send me word . PASTON,I,157.044.1148

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And Gods haue +gow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,157.044.1149

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wretyn at London on Sent Lawrens Day in hast . Be +gowre brodyre
$Wyllyam Paston PASTON,I,157.044.1150

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , $I send +gow a letter directyd to Wollysby .
PASTON,I,157.044.1151

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray +gow lethe it be delyuered hym as hastely as +ge may ,
PASTON,I,157.044.1152

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and if +ge come to +tis contre' I am leke to se +gow
PASTON,I,157.044.1153

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1436:22?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_044:M4:1458?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and we schall make ryth mery , I trust . PASTON,I,157.044.1154

<Q_PAS_A_1459_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_045> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,157>

{ED:86._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1459,_12_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To myn master Jon Paston in Norffolk . </font>
PASTON,I,157.045.1155

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rythe willbelouyd broder , I recomand me to +gow , sertefyeng +gow +tat
on Friday last was , in +te mornyng , Wurceter and I were come to
London be viij of +te clok ; PASTON,I,157.045.1156

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and we spak wyth myn lord Chancelere , PASTON,I,157.045.1157

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fund hym well dysposyd in all thyng , PASTON,I,157.045.1158

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ge schall fynd hym ryth profytabyll to +gow , &c .
PASTON,I,157.045.1159

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he desyryd me to wrythe +gow a letter in hys name and put trust in
+gow in gaderyng of +te good togeder ; and pray +gow to do so and haue
all his good owthe of euery place of his , his awne place , qwere so
euer they were , and ley it secretly were as +ge thowth best at +gowre
assynement , &c. , tyll +tat he speke wyth +gow hym-selff ;
PASTON,I,157.045.1160

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd +ge schulld haue all lawfull fauore . PASTON,I,157.045.1161

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I purpose to ryde to hym +tis day fore wrythis of diem clawsit extremum
, PASTON,I,157.045.1162

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sopose +ge schall haue a letter sent from hym-selff to +gow .
PASTON,I,157.045.1163

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore the good of Powlis , it is safe j-now ; PASTON,I,157.045.1164

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and <P_I,158> +tis day we haue grant to haue +te good owthe of
Barmunsey wythowthe avyse of any man sauyng Worseter , Plomer , and I
myn-selff , PASTON,I,158.045.1165

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and no body schall know of it but we thre . PASTON,I,158.045.1166

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord Tresorere spekyth fayre , PASTON,I,158.045.1167

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but +get many avyse me to put no trost in hym . PASTON,I,158.045.1168

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There is laboryd many menys to intytill +te Kyng in his good .
PASTON,I,158.045.1169

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sothewell is eschetore , PASTON,I,158.045.1170

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is rythe good and will disposyd . PASTON,I,158.045.1171

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord of Exsater cleymyth tytill in myn master plase , wyth +te
aportynantys , in Sothewerk , PASTON,I,158.045.1172

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ueryly had purposyd to haue entrid ; PASTON,I,158.045.1173

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and his consayll were wyth us , PASTON,I,158.045.1174

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and spak wyth Wurseter and me , PASTON,I,158.045.1175

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now afterward they haue sent vs word that they wold meve myn lord
to sue be menys of +te lawe , &c . PASTON,I,158.045.1176

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue spoke wyth myn lord of Canterbury and Master Jon Stokys ,
PASTON,I,158.045.1177

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fynd hem rythe will disposyd bothe , &c . PASTON,I,158.045.1178

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , to-morow are +te nexst day +ge schall haue a-noder letter ,
PASTON,I,158.045.1179

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be that tyme we schall know more than we do now .
PASTON,I,158.045.1180

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn lord Chancelere wold +tat myn master schulld be beryed wurchyply ,
and c mark almes done fore hym ; PASTON,I,158.045.1181

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but +tis day I schall holly know his enthent . PASTON,I,158.045.1182

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Master Jon Stokys hathe +te same consaythe and almes geuyng .
PASTON,I,158.045.1183

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Harry Fenyngley is nat in this towne , nere +te Lord Bechamp .
PASTON,I,158.045.1184

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , we haue gethe men of +te speretuall law wyth-haldyn wyth vs ,
qwat casse some euer hap . PASTON,I,158.045.1185

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We haue Master Roberd Kenthe . PASTON,I,158.045.1186

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But in any wyse haue all +te good there to-gedyre ,
PASTON,I,158.045.1187

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tary for no lettyng thow +ge schuld do it be day a lythe opynly ;
PASTON,I,158.045.1188

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is myn lord Chancelere full inthenthe that +ge schuld do so .
PASTON,I,158.045.1189

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Wyllyam Worceter , he trustythe veryly +ge wold do for hym and
for his avayll in reson , PASTON,I,158.045.1190

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I dowthe natt and he may ueryly and feythefully vnderstand +gow so
disposyd to hym ward +ge schall fynd hym feytheffull to +gow in leke
wysse . PASTON,I,158.045.1191

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I vnderstand by hym he will neuer haue oder master but his old master ,
PASTON,I,158.045.1192

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to myn consaythe it were pete` but iff he schull stand in suche
casse be myn master that he schuld neuer nede seruyce , $consederyng
how {TEXT:consederynghow} myn master trusted hym and +te long +gerys
that he hathe be wyth hym in , and many schrew jornay fore his sake ,
&c . PASTON,I,158.045.1193

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wrythe +gow no more , be-cawse +ge schall $haue a-noder letter wretyn
to-morow . PASTON,I,158.045.1194

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_045:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Lundon +te xij day of Nouembre in hast . Be Willyam Paston
PASTON,I,158.045.1195

<Q_PAS_A_1460_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_046> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,163>

{ED:89._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1460,_2_MAY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> $To hys rythe $wurshypffull broder Jon Paston , $dwellyng at
Caster . </font> PASTON,I,163.046.1196

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Broder , I comand me to +gow , certhefieng +gow that Playter is redyn
to Lundon ward +tis day a-bowthe ij after non , PASTON,I,163.046.1197

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he taryed here PASTON,I,163.046.1198

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schulde abedyn styll till he had had an horse +tat Master Thomas
Howys schuld haue lent hym ; PASTON,I,163.046.1199

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I thowthe he schuld haue taried to long , PASTON,I,163.046.1200

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he hathe bowthe on of myn hors . PASTON,I,163.046.1201

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And iff it nede he schall send +gow word be his man fro Lundon how he
felythe +te disposycyun off men there , &c. , PASTON,I,163.046.1202

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he schall send his man hom be Newmarket wey . PASTON,I,163.046.1203

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I haue nfur myd hym acording after +te ententhe of +gowre letter .
PASTON,I,163.046.1204

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spak +tis day wyth Bokkyng . PASTON,I,163.046.1205

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He had but few wurdys , PASTON,I,163.046.1206

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I felt be hym he was rythe euyll disposyd to +te parson and +gow ;
PASTON,I,163.046.1207

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but couerthe langgage he had . PASTON,I,163.046.1208

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wene he be assentid to +te fyndyng of +tis offyce takyn at Bokynham ,
PASTON,I,163.046.1209

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Recheman schall bryng +gow +te namys of +te men that mad +te
verdythe on Soneday nexst comyng . PASTON,I,163.046.1210

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray send to myn broder Clement fermore of Somerton fore mony fore
myn broder Clement for <P_I,164> to haue sent to hym to Lundon .
PASTON,I,164.046.1211

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I schuld haue done it qwan I was at Caster - PASTON,I,164.046.1212

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
myn moder desyryd me , PASTON,I,164.046.1213

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sent a letter after to +te parson PASTON,I,164.046.1214

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayed hym to receyue it , &c . PASTON,I,164.046.1215

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I prayd +te parson to wrythe a letter in his name to myn suster
Ponynggys , as +ge and I comunyd onys to-geder , cownsellyng here to
take good auyse be-fore sche sold here wood at Wrenham ,
PASTON,I,164.046.1216

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he schuld knowe there-by weder Ponynggys were in Kent are nat , &c
. PASTON,I,164.046.1217

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I vnderstond that this Bokkyng and Worceter haue grett trust in there
awne lewd consaythe , wathe some euer it menythe , &c .
PASTON,I,164.046.1218

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Bokkyng told me +tis day that he stood as well in consaythe wyth myn
master Fastolff iiij days be-fore he dyed as any man in Englond .
PASTON,I,164.046.1219

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sayd I soposyd nay , nere iij +gere before he dyed .
PASTON,I,164.046.1220

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told hym that I had hard dyueres talkyngys of hym as men sayd ,
qweche I soposyd schuld nat easly be browthe a-bowthe ;
PASTON,I,164.046.1221

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he swore that he talkyd neuer wyth no man in no mater +tat schuld
be a-+gen +gow , &c . PASTON,I,164.046.1222

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is he +tat makythe William Wurceter so froward as he is .
PASTON,I,164.046.1223

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold +ge had a witnesse of Roberd Ingglows , thow he wittnessyd no
more but +tat myn master had his witthe , be-cawse he was so lathe wyth
myn master Fastolff . PASTON,I,164.046.1224

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Worceter sayd at Caster it schuld be nessessary for +gow to haue goode
witnesse , as he saythe it schuld go streythe wyth +gow wythe-owt
+gowre wittnesse were rythe sofycyent . PASTON,I,164.046.1225

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn cosyn Berney can tell +gow , &c . PASTON,I,164.046.1226

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , remembre to make +te parson to make an jnstrument up-on his
sayyng ; PASTON,I,164.046.1227

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I funde hym rythe good qwan I spak wyth hym at Caster .
PASTON,I,164.046.1228

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And remembre +te newe euydens . PASTON,I,164.046.1229

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Arblaster and I spakk to-geder . PASTON,I,164.046.1230

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I felle hym rythe feythefully disposyd to +gow ward ,
PASTON,I,164.046.1231

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he schall mow do myche good and he go to Lundon ,
PASTON,I,164.046.1232

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he can labore will a-monge lordys . PASTON,I,164.046.1233

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He and I comunyd togeder of myn Lord Awbre` . PASTON,I,164.046.1234

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lethe hym tell +gow qwat it was , PASTON,I,164.046.1235

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he will speke wyth +gow to-morow . PASTON,I,164.046.1236

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is full nessessary to make +gow strong be lord-chep and be oder
menys . PASTON,I,164.046.1237

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn Lord Awbry hathe weddit +te Duke of Bokyngham dowter ,
PASTON,I,164.046.1238

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he was lathe wyth Master Fastolff be-fore he dyed ,
PASTON,I,164.046.1239

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is gret wyth +te Qwene . PASTON,I,164.046.1240

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Gode haue +gow in his kepeng . PASTON,I,164.046.1241

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_046:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche +te secund day of May . Omnya pro pecunya facta sunt
. Be +gowre broder W. Paston PASTON,I,164.046.1242

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FN_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_047> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,166>

{ED:91._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_ABOUT_20_JULY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To myn wurchipfull broder Jon Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,166.047.1243

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryththe wurchipfull broder , I recomand $me to +gow .
PASTON,I,166.047.1244

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lekit it +gow to wethe Jon off Dam is come to towne and purposit hym to
tary here a day are ij , are lengar , I can thynk , and he be desyryd ;
were-fore I pray +gow , and as I haue a-fore +tis tyme desiryd +gow +te
same , that suche materis as hathe be comunyd now lathe be-twyx myn
moder , +gow , and hym may take <P_I,167> some good conclucyon be-twyx
owre-selff here at hom . PASTON,I,167.047.1245

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And jn myn consayt , sauyng $+gowr better avyse , it were so most
conuenyent and wurchipfull for us all and comforthe to all owre fryndis
. PASTON,I,167.047.1246

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for +tis ententhe I wold tary here the lengare ,
PASTON,I,167.047.1247

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wold be as glad as any man a-lyue that suche an ende mythe be
take be-twix vs that jche off us all schuld jnyoy +te wylleffare off
odyr , qweche I trust wyth +gowre good help schall be rythe wyll .
PASTON,I,167.047.1248

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I dowthe nat myn mastyr Markam wyll be will plesyd thus .
PASTON,I,167.047.1249

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue tydyngys from London , PASTON,I,167.047.1250

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a-monge odyr tydyngys I haue knowlage that Cirstofre Hanson is
passid to God on Saterday last past at ij off clok after mydnythe .
PASTON,I,167.047.1251

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is good to take hede there-to , &c . PASTON,I,167.047.1252

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I sent to +gow to haue had +gowre auyse qwat menys were best to
make for +te mater towchyng +te Lord Scrop , qwere-jn I had an answere
; PASTON,I,167.047.1253

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but me thowthe it was nat to +te poynthe . PASTON,I,167.047.1254

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sopose , and I purposyd to make the labore that +ge sent me word I
schuld do towchyng me , I can thynk I schuld sone be answerid , sonare
than he . PASTON,I,167.047.1255

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must send some answere to hym were-jn I wold haue +gowre consayll ,
PASTON,I,167.047.1256

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he desirid +te same PASTON,I,167.047.1257

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wold not he schold thynk that he were for-gotyn be us .
PASTON,I,167.047.1258

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be +gowre pore broder William Paston PASTON,I,167.047.1259

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can thynk and he were here he wold be a feythfull frynd to +gow ;
PASTON,I,167.047.1260

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but and so were that +ge thowthe +tat it were for to labore for any
oder man , me thynkit it were for +gow to remembre myn nevew that were
somewat lykly , PASTON,I,167.047.1261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-to wold I be glad to help and lene to +te toder .
PASTON,I,167.047.1262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For as for me , I know so moche that sche will non haue but iff he haue
, ar be leke to haue , meche more lond than I haue ;
PASTON,I,167.047.1263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff I knewe +te contrary it schuld nat be left for +te labore ,
PASTON,I,167.047.1264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I wold nat be in a folis paradyce . PASTON,I,167.047.1265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1436:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_047:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +ge be myn good brodir I trust thow to do rythe will , &c .
PASTON,I,167.047.1266

<Q_PAS_AC_1467_FO_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_048> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_UNCLE> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_NEPHEW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,167>

{ED:92._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1467}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To my right worshipfull nevew Sir John Paston , knyght . </font>
PASTON,I,167.048.1267

<P_I,168>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Myn suster , Arblaster , and I haue apoyntyd +tat we schall kepe non
howsold +tis terme but go to borde , were-fore we auyse +gow to puruay
for us a logynge nere a-bowt myn lord Chanselere +tat be honest ,
PASTON,I,168.048.1268

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for Arblaster will non oder . PASTON,I,168.048.1269

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , as for +gow , we auyse +gow jn any wyse gete +gowr chamer
assynyd wyth-in myn lordys place , PASTON,I,168.048.1270

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and gete chamer a-lone iff +ge may , +tat Arblaster and I may haue a
bed ther-in +giff it fortune us to be late there wyth +gow .
PASTON,I,168.048.1271

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , take hed to gete suyrte`s for +te pore men +tat come up , and
+tat +tey may be sent hom a-+gen forthe-wyth wyth-owt taryyng ;
PASTON,I,168.048.1272

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and take auyse so +tat +te proses may so go forthe +tat +tey may be
qwett at +te nexst assysys . PASTON,I,168.048.1273

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Take auyse off Townysend . PASTON,I,168.048.1274

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
As for +Geluerton , fynd +te menys +tat he speke nat wyth myn lord till
we come . PASTON,I,168.048.1275

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Iff any labore be mad to myn lord to asyne men to here +te mater
jndefferently , make labore to myn lord +tat tho men be nat namyd till
we come , PASTON,I,168.048.1276

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for we can jnffurme hym soche as be parciall be there dedys hereaffore
qweche parauenture myn lord wold thynk were jndefferent j-now till he
be jnfurmyd . PASTON,I,168.048.1277

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
It may be answerid be myn lord +tat he will nat prosede no ferthar in
+te mater till Arblaster comyng and myn , PASTON,I,168.048.1278

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for we can best jnfurme +te mater . PASTON,I,168.048.1279

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , send a letter to Rychard Kall and to Ser Jamys Gloys to come up
to London in any wyse , PASTON,I,168.048.1280

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for there is no man can do in dyuers materys +tat they can do jn
answeryng suche mater as +Geluerton wyll ley a-+gens +gow ;
PASTON,I,168.048.1281

<P_I,169>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and also +tey can best mak +te bill +tat +ge schuld put a-+gens hem ,
PASTON,I,169.048.1282

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and therfor remembre . PASTON,I,169.048.1283

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , wrythe a letter to myn suster for +te c mark for myn Lady
Soffolk , PASTON,I,169.048.1284

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for we haue no uerry dyrect answer off her weder sche wyll send it ar
nat . PASTON,I,169.048.1285

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , speke to +gowr atorney in +te Kyngys Benche +tat he take hed to
all maner jndytamentys , both old and new , and to all oder materys
+tat hangyng there . PASTON,I,169.048.1286

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , do Pampyng comyn wyth owr sperituall concell suche mater as
nedyn there , PASTON,I,169.048.1287

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and haue newe wretyn +te attestacion +tat lakkyn .
PASTON,I,169.048.1288

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
+Te same man +tat wrott +te oder may wrythe that .
PASTON,I,169.048.1289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
For +Geluerton mad gret auawnt +tat +ge schuld be hyndrid in that .
PASTON,I,169.048.1290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrythe a letter to myn nevew Jon +gonger to come up to preue +te wyll .
PASTON,I,169.048.1291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Speke wyth Ser Gilberd Debenham qwill he is in cownt to leue uper
Cotton . PASTON,I,169.048.1292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Item , +Geluerton , Howys , and Worceter make meche +tat we haue put
hem owt off possesscyon off the lond , qweche +tey say is contrary to
myn lord Chanseler comandement . PASTON,I,169.048.1293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
And jn trowth Ser Jamys and Call meche spokyn to +te tenantys in myn
lordys name , PASTON,I,169.048.1294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
fore +Geluerton thynkyt +tat he may now breke +te trete` ; qwer-for
take auyse here-in off Master Tresham and off Master Staueley ,
PASTON,I,169.048.1295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and jnfurme myn lord how myn broder qwas all-way in possescion till he
was put owt for +te mater off bondage , and how +ge fynd +te colage ,
and qwat an hurt it were to +gow in noyse of contre` iff any oder man
schuld now receyue any proffitys off +te londys . PASTON,I,169.048.1296

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
They will labore +tat jndeferent men schuld receyue ,
PASTON,I,169.048.1297

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and +tat wer nat good ; PASTON,I,169.048.1298

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
myn lord may say +tat he will end +te mater , PASTON,I,169.048.1299

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
but as for +te possescyon he will nat put +gow owt .
PASTON,I,169.048.1300

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
Labor +tis in all hast possible . PASTON,I,169.048.1301

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
I pray yow send me an answere of all such thynges as requirith an
answere in this contre` , PASTON,I,169.048.1302

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
for Arblaster purposith to be wyth yow on Sonday sevenyght ,
PASTON,I,169.048.1303

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:UNCLE:1436:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_048:M4:1467:AC:FAMILY_OTHER
and I purpose to be wyth yow ij dayes afore . PASTON,I,169.048.1304

<Q_PAS_C_1479?_T_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_049> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1436> <R_RICHARD_ROOS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1410?>

<P_I,188>

{ED:108._TO_RICHARD_ROOS_PROBABLY_1479,_28_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
<font> $To <em> my </em> Master Ros $at Refham <em> be +tis lettre
</em> deliuerd . </font> PASTON,I,188.049.1305

<P_I,189>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Master Ros , I recommand me to you as humbly as I can , thankyng you
nat allonly for <em> ... </em> which ben grete deynte` in this contre`
, and for your brawne and your crane , but also for the <em> ... </em>
labour that ye toke for me in commyng hider to Wodnorton to your grete
disese . PASTON,I,189.049.1306

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
For I vndirstonde be Master <em> ... </em> +tat was her with me agein
yisterday +tat ye cam home both colde and late and causid hym and his
broder <em> both to abide </em> with you al nyght and made them ful
goode chier , as he saith . PASTON,I,189.049.1307

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Sir , your seruauntes Symond Gonnour and Mils , whan they cam last from
you , tolde me +tat ye desired me to com by you to Norwiche wardes ,
and +tat if I wolde so do ye wolde ride forth to Norwich .
PASTON,I,189.049.1308

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And morouer , ser , I $remember +tat ye tolde me the last tyme +tat I
was with you at Refham +tat ye wolde dispose your-silf affore this
Cristenmas to take a journey to se my lady of Norffolk ; which if ye
will parfourme nowe I wolde be verrey glade to awaite vpon you and to
accompany with you thider . PASTON,I,189.049.1309

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And ye coude not take your journey thider in a better season ,
PASTON,I,189.049.1310

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
for ther is commyn hider to me a seruaunte of my lord of Bukynghams ,
which hath abiden her this iij or iiij dais and wil not departe hens
till he haue me forth with hym to my lady of Norffolk for a serten
mater touching my said lord of Bukyngham , which mater I trust if ye
com I shal handill it so +tat ye shal do both my lorde and hir a
plesure . PASTON,I,189.049.1311

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And ser , if ye wil take this journey I <em> wil awaite </em> vpon you
and com homewardes ageyn with you be my Lady Beaumont and my cousyn Ser
William PASTON,I,189.049.1312

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
<em> ... </em> jntende to take this journey I pray you to sende me
aunswer by the brynger herof , PASTON,I,189.049.1313

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
for my <em> lordes seruaunte and I purpose </em> to take our journey
from hens on Monday in the mornyng and to ly at Norwiche that nyght ,
and <em> vpon Tewisday </em> to ride forth to my lady of Norffolk .
PASTON,I,189.049.1314

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And , ser , I wil assay to com by you as I ride to Norwiche
PASTON,I,189.049.1315

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and I may b <em> ... </em> doute of it , PASTON,I,189.049.1316

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
for my lordes seruaunte callith so sore vpon me to go forth and to lese
no tyme . PASTON,I,189.049.1317

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Also , ser , if so <em> be +tat William Barker </em> of Bloofeld be
with you I wolde fayn speke with hym , wherfor I besiech you +tat ye
wil sende h <em> ... </em> PASTON,I,189.049.1318

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
he shal not tary . PASTON,I,189.049.1319

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Also , ser , I wolde pray you to convey me a lettre to Thomas Bettes of
Ermyngham <em> ... </em> PASTON,I,189.049.1320

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Lord preserue you and my mastres your wif . PASTON,I,189.049.1321

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_049:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Wodenorton the xxviij day of Nouembre . Be +gowre owne
seruaunt William Paston PASTON,I,189.049.1322

<Q_PAS_C_1479?_T_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_050> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1436> <R_RICHARD_ROOS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1410?>

<P_I,190>

{ED:109._TO_RICHARD_ROOS_PROBABLY_1479,_19_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my Master Roos at Refeham be this delivered . </font>
PASTON,I,190.050.1323

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Mayster Roos , I recomaund me to +gew in myn most humbill maner .
PASTON,I,190.050.1324

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Syr , myn lady of Norffolk faryth welle PASTON,I,190.050.1325

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and recomaund her to +gew , PASTON,I,190.050.1326

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and gladly wold se +gew . PASTON,I,190.050.1327

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
We sped all myn Lord Bokyngham intent with hyr grace .
PASTON,I,190.050.1328

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Syr , +te delyueraunce was at Derham on Thursday ,
PASTON,I,190.050.1329

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and here was Syr William Alyngton , Heydon , Fyncham , and many odyr ,
PASTON,I,190.050.1330

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and I spake with Heydon for +te mater hangyng be-twyx +gew and hys
fader , PASTON,I,190.050.1331

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and I fownd hym ryth conformable to do +gew plesore and ryght reuerent
in hys utteraunce , with all dew reueraunce acordyng .
PASTON,I,190.050.1332

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And , syr , he told me +tat he was at Reffham , to seke after +gew
PASTON,I,190.050.1333

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and +ge ware nat at hoom ; PASTON,I,190.050.1334

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and in conclusyon he told me +tat +te mater was put in Townnysend and
Fyncham . PASTON,I,190.050.1335

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And , syr , he prayd me to wryte to +gew , and to meve +gew to send to
them to a-poynt a day to here +te mater , +te soner +te leuer ,
PASTON,I,190.050.1336

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and +ge schal fynd hym resonable , as he seyth , and be glade to do
+gew plesore ; PASTON,I,190.050.1337

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and he hym-self spake to Fyncham to be redy qwanne +ge sent for hym .
PASTON,I,190.050.1338

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Me thynk at Norwich were good metyng , PASTON,I,190.050.1339

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and yf +te comminicacion be had will I am here I wolle help +tat I can
. PASTON,I,190.050.1340

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
As +ge wolle do here-inne send me knowlache be +te brynger here-of .
PASTON,I,190.050.1341

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Syr , I pray +gew send me knowlach yf William Barkare be com
PASTON,I,190.050.1342

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
do hym com to me to Norwich on Munday . PASTON,I,190.050.1343

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And Owre Lord preserue both +gew and myn masteras and all +gowres ,
PASTON,I,190.050.1344

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
as welle fare +ge as I wold do myn-self . PASTON,I,190.050.1345

<P_I,191>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Syr , myn lord of Ely , be +te menys of myn Lady Norffolk and myn lady
Anne , and myn cosyn Southwell +tat was masengere , sent me a suppena
to a-pere a-forn +te Kyng in +te peyn of a m=l= li. be-fore Crystmes ;
PASTON,I,191.050.1346

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and I wold nat be in +te case +tat I was in to dayes , tyl I knw +te
mater , nat for xx li . PASTON,I,191.050.1347

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
And myn lady of Norffolk wold nat dyscouer +te mater tyll I had wretyn
and sent myn seruauntes to London ; PASTON,I,191.050.1348

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and qwan thei where gon , than myn Lady Norffolk told me +te mater
PASTON,I,191.050.1349

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
and tornyd to a jape +tat was ernest with me a-fore , &c .
PASTON,I,191.050.1350

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
Written at Estdereham this day Seturday the xix day of Decembre .
PASTON,I,191.050.1351

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:43?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_ROOS:MALE:_:1410?:69?
LETTER:PASTON_050:M4:1479?:COPY:OTHER
+Gowre seruant W. Paston PASTON,I,191.050.1352

<Q_PAS_C_1480_T_W2PASTON> <L_PASTON_051> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1436> <R_JOHN_KYNG> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,192>

{ED:111._TO_JOHN_KYNG_1480,_24_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
<font> To John Kynge , fermour of my maner of Harwelbury in Kelsall be
Royston , be this delyuerid . </font> PASTON,I,192.051.1353

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
John Kyng , I grete yow hartely well , PASTON,I,192.051.1354

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
and I vnderstond , as well by my frende Syr William Storar as by
Richard Browne , that as well my kynnesman Syr John Paston that dede is
as my kynnesman John Paston that now leveth have ben wyth yow and yovyn
yow many grete thretis for that ye , acordyng to the trowth , tolde
vn-to them that ye ocupyed my maner of Harwelbury be my leese and be my
ryght . PASTON,I,192.051.1355

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
And furthermore I vnderstond , not wythstondyng the seyde grete thretis
, that ye , lyke a full trwe , harty frende , have delyd and fastely
a-bedyn in my tytill and wolde not retorne to none of them . Wherfor I
hartely thank yow , PASTON,I,192.051.1356

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
and furthar-more to corage yow in yowr fast dealyng I schew on-to yow
that I have ryght bothe in law and in concience , wher-by I promyse yow
on my feythe to de-fende yow and save yow harmeles for the occupacion
of the londe , or any thynge that ye schall doo in my titill a-gaynst
hym , and it schulde cost me as moche as the maner is worth ; and also
a-nother tyme to doo asmoche for yow and it ly in my powre , yf ye have
ony mater to doo ther , as I may doo for yow . PASTON,I,192.051.1357

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
And also I here say by my seid frende Syr William Storar and by Richard
Brown that ye ar of suche substaunce and of suche trust and suche favor
in the contre` ther that it lithe in yowr powre to do a goode turne for
yowr frende . PASTON,I,192.051.1358

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at London the xxiiij=ti= day of Februari . PASTON,I,192.051.1359

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_051:M4:1480:COPY:OTHER
Be William Paston PASTON,I,192.051.1360

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_052> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,197>

{ED:114._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_23_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hijs rythe worchypfwll brodere John Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,197.052.1361

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rythe reuerent and worchypfwll broder , I recomawnde $me to +gow ,
certyfyyng +gow +tat +gowre letter was delyueryd me +te xxiij day of
Januari abowthe noone seison , PASTON,I,197.052.1362

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Rychard Calle rode in +te mornyng , PASTON,I,197.052.1363

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +terefore I brak +gowre letter if +tere were ony asti mater .
PASTON,I,197.052.1364

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I dede Cristofyre Hanswm goo to my lord of Cawnterburi to tell him
as +gowre letter rehersyd , PASTON,I,197.052.1365

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my lord seyd he hadde spokyn wyth +gowre man +tere-of +te day
before , PASTON,I,197.052.1366

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if +te Byssope of Norwyche wold not doo so mwche for him he hijs
+te les be-hold to him . Not wythstondyng he sayd he wold saue +gow
harmelez a-+gens John +Gowng ; PASTON,I,197.052.1367

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , and +ge do well , remembire thys lordys haue many materijs to
thyng on , PASTON,I,197.052.1368

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it be fore-getin +te harm is +gowrys . PASTON,I,197.052.1369

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also if +te word torn John +Gong will not doo at hijs prayere .
PASTON,I,197.052.1370

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And my Lord FitzWatere is rydyn northe-wardys , PASTON,I,197.052.1371

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is sayd in my lord of Cawnterberijs howse +tat he hathe takyn ij
c of Andrew Troloppys men . PASTON,I,197.052.1372

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore Colt and Sire Jamys Strangwysse and Sire Thomas Pykeryng ,
+tey be takyn ore ellys dede ; PASTON,I,197.052.1373

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+te comyn voysse is +tat +tey be dede . PASTON,I,197.052.1374

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hopton and Hastyngys be wyth $+te Erle of Marche ,
PASTON,I,197.052.1375

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wer not at +te fewlde . PASTON,I,197.052.1376

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wat word +tat euer he haue fro my lordys +tat be here , it is well doo
and best fore +gow to see +tat +te contre` be all-weys redy to com ,
bothe fote men and hors men , qwan they be sent fore ;
PASTON,I,197.052.1377

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I haue hard seyde +te forthere lordys will be here sonere +tan men
wen , PASTON,I,197.052.1378

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue arde sayde ore iij wekys to an ende ; and also +tat +ge xwld com
wyth more men <P_I,198> and clenliere arayed +tan a-nodere man of
+gowre cwntre` xwld , PASTON,I,198.052.1379

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore it lythe more vp-on +gowre worchyp PASTON,I,198.052.1380

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and towcheythe +gow more nere +tan odere men of +tat cwntre` ,
PASTON,I,198.052.1381

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also +ge be more had in fauore wyth my lordys here .
PASTON,I,198.052.1382

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In thys cwntre` euery man is well wyllyng to goo wyth my lordys here ,
PASTON,I,198.052.1383

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I hope God xall helpe hem , PASTON,I,198.052.1384

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te pepill in +te northe robbe and styll PASTON,I,198.052.1385

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ben apoyntyd to pill all thys cwntre` , and gyffe a-way menys
goodys and lyfflodys in all +te sowthe cwntre` , PASTON,I,198.052.1386

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that wyll ask a myscheffe . PASTON,I,198.052.1387

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lordys +tat ben here haue as moche as +tey may doo to kep down all
thys cwntre` , more +tan iiij ore v scherys , PASTON,I,198.052.1388

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +tey wold be vp on +te men in northe , PASTON,I,198.052.1389

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore it ys fore +te welle of all +te sowthe . PASTON,I,198.052.1390

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow recomawnde me to my modere , PASTON,I,198.052.1391

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat I prayed here of here blyssyng . PASTON,I,198.052.1392

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow exscwse me to here +tat I wryte here no letter ,
PASTON,I,198.052.1393

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore thys was y-now a-doo . PASTON,I,198.052.1394

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I dare not pray +gow to recomawnde me to my swster +gowre wyff ,
PASTON,I,198.052.1395

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te masangere , I trow , be so wysse he can not do yt .
PASTON,I,198.052.1396

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Ge mwst pay him fore hijs labour , PASTON,I,198.052.1397

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he taryd all nyt in thys town fore thys letter .
PASTON,I,198.052.1398

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn ye xxiij day of Janwari in haste , wan I was not well at hesse .
PASTON,I,198.052.1399

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue $+gow in hijs keping . PASTON,I,198.052.1400

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_052:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By Clement Paston , +gowre broder PASTON,I,198.052.1401

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_053> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,198>

{ED:115._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_26_JUNE}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rythe worchypfwll broder John Paston be thys delyueryd in
haste . </font> PASTON,I,198.053.1402

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brodere , I recomawnde me to +gow , desyeryng to here of +gowre welfare
, +te qwyche I pray God maynten . PASTON,I,198.053.1403

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesse +gow to wette +tat I haue sent my moder a letter fore mony fore
my swster , PASTON,I,198.053.1404

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if +ge wyll agre` +tat I may haue xx=ti= li . I xall +geue +gow
acowmptys +tere-of PASTON,I,198.053.1405

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ge xall be payyd a+gen of +te obligacion +tat my moder hathe ,
PASTON,I,198.053.1406

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys I xall tak a swerte` of my suster . PASTON,I,198.053.1407

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I-wysse obligacion mwste nedys be swyd , and a doseyn accions more in
her name and sche doo well thys terme , PASTON,I,198.053.1408

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wyll be doo wythin fowrtenynt . PASTON,I,198.053.1409

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Cowntas of Northumberlond and Robarde Fenns <P_I,199> ocupie all
her lond , PASTON,I,199.053.1410

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat is a gret myscheffe . PASTON,I,199.053.1411

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow $speke to my moder her-of , PASTON,I,199.053.1412

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lat me haue a awnswere wyth-in +tis seuenynt .
PASTON,I,199.053.1413

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , broder , Wymdam is com to town , PASTON,I,199.053.1414

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd to me he wyll goo gett hym a mayster ;
PASTON,I,199.053.1415

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and me thowte by hym he wold be in +te Kyngys seruise .
PASTON,I,199.053.1416

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he saythe +tat he wyll haue Felbryg a-+gen ore Myhelmes ,
PASTON,I,199.053.1417

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ore +tere xall be v c hedys brok +tere-fore . PASTON,I,199.053.1418

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brodere , I pray +gow delyuer +te mony +tat I xwld haue in-to swm
priore of swm abbey , to swm mayster of swm colage , to be delyueryd
qwan I can espy ony londe to be purchasyd . PASTON,I,199.053.1419

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow send me word wyder +ge wyll doo thus ore no .
PASTON,I,199.053.1420

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more , but Owre Lord haue +gow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,199.053.1421

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_053:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn on Fryday nexst after Seynt John is Day . By +gour broder
Clement Paston PASTON,I,199.053.1422

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_054> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,199>

{ED:116._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_25_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hijs rythe reuerent and worchypfwll broder John Paston .
</font> PASTON,I,199.054.1423

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rythe reuerent and worchypfwll broder , I recomawnde me to +gowre good
broderhood , desieryng to herre of +goure welfare and good prosperite`
, the qwyche I pray God encresse to his pleswre and +gowre hertys hesse
; certyfyyng +gow +tat I haue spok wyth John Rwsse , and Playter spak
wyth him bothe , on Fryday be-fore Seynt Barthelmw .
PASTON,I,199.054.1424

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he told vs of Howardys gydyng , qwyche mad vs rythe sory tyl we
harde +te conclusion +tat +ge hadde non harme . PASTON,I,199.054.1425

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I vnderstond by W. Pekok +tat my nevew hadde knowlache +tere-of
also vp-on Saterday nexst be-fore Seynt Barthelmwe , in +te Kyngys
howse . PASTON,I,199.054.1426

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not wyth-standyng vp-on +te sam day Playter and I wryte letterys on-to
him rehersyng al the mater , fore cause if +tere were ony questionys
mevyd to hym +tere-of +tat he xwlde telle +te trowthe , in cas +tat +te
qwestions were meuyd by ony worchypfwll man , and namyd my Lord
Bowchere , PASTON,I,199.054.1427

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore my Lord Bowchere was wyth +te Kyng at +tat tym .
PASTON,I,199.054.1428

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fele by W. Pekok +tat my nevew is not +get verily aqweyntyd in +te
Kyngys howse , nore wyth +te officerys of +te Kyngys howse .
PASTON,I,199.054.1429

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is not <P_I,200> takyn as non of +tat howse , PASTON,I,200.054.1430

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te cokys be not charged to serue hym nore +te sewere to gyue hym
no dyche , PASTON,I,200.054.1431

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te sewere wyll not tak no men no dischys till +tey be comawndyd
by +te cownterrollere . PASTON,I,200.054.1432

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , he is not aqueyntyd wyth no body but wyth Wekys ,
PASTON,I,200.054.1433

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Wekys ad told hym +tat he wold bryng hym to +te Kyng ;
PASTON,I,200.054.1434

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he hathe not +get do soo . Were-fore it were best fore hym to tak
hijs leve and cum hom , till +ge hadd spok wyth swm body to helpe hym
forthe , PASTON,I,200.054.1435

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he is not bold y-now to put forthe hym-selfe .
PASTON,I,200.054.1436

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But +tan I consyderyd +tat if he xwld now cum hom +te Kyng wold thyng
+tat wan he xwld doo hym ony seruice sum were , +tat +tan +ge wold haue
hym hom , +te qwyche xwld cause hym not to be hadde in fauore ;
PASTON,I,200.054.1437

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also men wold thynke +tat he were put owte of seruice .
PASTON,I,200.054.1438

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also W. Pekok tellythe me +tat hijs mony is spent , and not ryotesly
but wysly and discretly , PASTON,I,200.054.1439

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te costys is gretter in +te Kyngys howse qwen he rydythe +tan +ge
wend it hadde be , as Wyllam Pekok can tell +gow .
PASTON,I,200.054.1440

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tere wee mwst gett hym i c s. at +te lest , as by Wyllam Pekokys
seyyng , PASTON,I,200.054.1441

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +get +tat will be to lytill . PASTON,I,200.054.1442

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I wot well we kan not get xl d. of Cristofyre Hanswm ,
PASTON,I,200.054.1443

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I xall be fayn to lend it him of myn owne siluer .
PASTON,I,200.054.1444

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I knew verily +gour entent were +tat he xwld cum hom I wold send hym
non . PASTON,I,200.054.1445

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There I wyll doo as me thynkithe +ge xwld be best plesyd ,
PASTON,I,200.054.1446

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat , me thynkythe , is to send him +te siluer .
PASTON,I,200.054.1447

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tere-fore I pray +gow as hastely as +ge may send me a-+gen v mark ,
PASTON,I,200.054.1448

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te remnawnte I trow I xall gett vp-on Cristofire Hanswm and Lwket
. PASTON,I,200.054.1449

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow send me it as hastely as +ge may , PASTON,I,200.054.1450

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I xall leue my-selfe rythe bare ; PASTON,I,200.054.1451

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray +gow send me a letter how +ge woll +tat he xall be demenyd .
PASTON,I,200.054.1452

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn on Twsday after Seynt Barthelmwe , &c . PASTON,I,200.054.1453

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Christus vos obseruet . PASTON,I,200.054.1454

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_054:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By <em> Clement Paston </em> PASTON,I,200.054.1455

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_055> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,202>

{ED:118._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1464,_15_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hijs rythe worchypfwl broder John Paston the heldere ,
sqwyere , be thys delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,202.055.1456

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brodere , I recomawnde me to +gow after all dew recomendacions , &c .
PASTON,I,202.055.1457

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Az fore Hew Fennys obligacion , +Geluerton knowlacheyd it to be Sire
John Fastolfe is dede opynly in +te Eschekere , PASTON,I,202.055.1458

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there he hadde is jugement to receyue +te mony and x li. fore
damagys , PASTON,I,202.055.1459

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they report here +tat they haue a schreve after here entent +tat
wyll mak hem execucion , ore ellis return +tat +ge haue wastyd +te
godys of +te dede , so +tat they wyll haue execucion of +gowre own
goodys ore ellys a wryt to tak +gowre body . PASTON,I,202.055.1460

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus +ge may se they +geue no fors wat they doo , thow they xwld lesse
and stroy all +te goodys of +te dede . PASTON,I,202.055.1461

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And there-fore , fore sauacion of +te goodys of +te dede better it were
to tak sum trete` +tan to $suffer +te goodys thus to be <P_I,203> lost
. PASTON,I,203.055.1462

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , +Geluerton hathe ben at all +te tenauntys in Sowthewerk and
chargid hem to pay no mony but to hym . PASTON,I,203.055.1463

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , the Kyng hathe ben in Glowceterschere and pwnyssede hijs
rebellious a-+gens +te lawe , PASTON,I,203.055.1464

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he entendithe to doo in Norfolk , and after +tat in odere
contreez . PASTON,I,203.055.1465

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God +geue grasse and good spede in hijs jornay . PASTON,I,203.055.1466

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more , but I pray Gode haue +gow in hijs kepyng .
PASTON,I,203.055.1467

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Hasse Wednysday in haste . PASTON,I,203.055.1468

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , I pray +gou send me xl s. +tat I tok Jamez Gressam and John
Pampyng fore +gowre materys . PASTON,I,203.055.1469

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , there is no man +tat hathe contentyd ony thyng in +te Kyngys
Benche of all thijs term for +gour materys , PASTON,I,203.055.1470

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat makythe the clerkys and +gowre aturnay wery .
PASTON,I,203.055.1471

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trow I xall be fayn to contente hem PASTON,I,203.055.1472

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ore ellys they xall be vnpayyd . PASTON,I,203.055.1473

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_055:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowre brodere Clement Paston PASTON,I,203.055.1474

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_056> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,203>

{ED:119._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1464,_18_APRIL}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rygth worchypfull broder John Paston , sqwyere . </font>
PASTON,I,203.056.1475

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worshypfull brothyre , I recomawnde me to +gow after all dew
recomendacions , &c . PASTON,I,203.056.1476

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesse it +gow to wett +tat after +tat I harde say +tat +te parson of
Blowfelde wasse com to town I went to hym to hys jn ,
PASTON,I,203.056.1477

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he bade +te masenger say +tat he wasse not wyth-in .
PASTON,I,203.056.1478

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I bad hym say a-gayn +tat I com thyder to hym fore hijs own
worchype and auayle , and +tat I wasse sory +tat I com so fere fore hym
. PASTON,I,203.056.1479

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after +tat he sent fore me PASTON,I,203.056.1480

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he cowde not fynde me , PASTON,I,203.056.1481

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I harde say there-of ; PASTON,I,203.056.1482

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan I wrott a letter resytyng how +tat he wasse sworn +gesterday
fore to say +te trowthe of al maner of materis consernyng Sire John
Fastolfe , PASTON,I,203.056.1483

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
auysyd hym to remembere qwat hijs wytnesse hadde sayd fore hijs sake
and wat schame it xwlde be to hym to say +te contrary , and also if he
sayde +te contrary +ge wold here-after proue +te trowthe and $contrary
to hys sayyng , and proue <P_I,204> hym in a periuri .
PASTON,I,204.056.1484

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I badde hym remembere wyth wat maner of men he delt wythe ,
PASTON,I,204.056.1485

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I rehersyd how vntrwly they hadde don . PASTON,I,204.056.1486

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And not wyth-stondyng thys , after I met wyth hym in +te strett
PASTON,I,204.056.1487

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and spak wyth hym , PASTON,I,204.056.1488

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fownde hym passyng strawngely disposyd , and sor meuyd wyth
consiens +tat +ge xwld haue +te lond and fownd +te colage but wyth an c
marc. not wyth-stondyng he myth fynde in hijs consiens rythe well +tat
+te colage xwld be fowndyd in a-noder plasse but wyth an c marc. , and
+te remnaunt of +te lylode sold so +tat he myth pwrce +te mony .
PASTON,I,204.056.1489

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So I felt by hym +tat all hijs strawngenes from +gow is fore he demythe
+tat +ge wold parte from no thyng , PASTON,I,204.056.1490

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I told hym +te $contrary there-of to be trwe .
PASTON,I,204.056.1491

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Az thys day he is exayminid vp-on a bok to sey +te trowthe of all
thyngys as +te juge wyll aske hym fore +te jugeis jnformacion , wych I
trowe wyll not be good . Also they haue pwt jn testes a+gens +gow
iij=xx= ore iiij=xx= men . PASTON,I,204.056.1492

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mayster Robard Kent wold fayn +tat +ge xwld gett +gow ij lycens of +te
prioris of +gowre wytnes Mayster Clement and +te monke , wyth on a datt
beyng be-fore +te comyng vp , PASTON,I,204.056.1493

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +tat must +ge nedis haue . PASTON,I,204.056.1494

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he wold fayn +tat +ge xwld com to thys towne .
PASTON,I,204.056.1495

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me thowte by Sire Thomas +tat they haue a swerte` in maner +tat +ge
xall haue no lycens fore +gour fundacion , PASTON,I,204.056.1496

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they be abowte to gett a lycens to fownde +te colage in a-noder
place . PASTON,I,204.056.1497

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me thynkythe +tat wold hurte . PASTON,I,204.056.1498

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here colour is fore cause +ge can gett no lycens to fownde it at
Castere , werfore , thow +gour wyll were trwe , they myth lawfully
fownde it in a-noder place . PASTON,I,204.056.1499

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord Chawncelere is gone to +Gork PASTON,I,204.056.1500

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyll not be here of all thys term . PASTON,I,204.056.1501

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn on Wednisday nexst be-for Saynt George . PASTON,I,204.056.1502

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kyng hathe ben in Kent , PASTON,I,204.056.1503

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there ben endityd many fore Isleis dethe ; PASTON,I,204.056.1504

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wyll com to town thys day a-+gen , PASTON,I,204.056.1505

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wyl not tary here but forthe to +Gork straytt .
PASTON,I,204.056.1506

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:22
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_056:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By Clement Paston PASTON,I,204.056.1507

<Q_PAS_A_1466_FN_CPASTON> <L_PASTON_057> <A_CLEMENT_PASTON_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,204>

{ED:120._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1466,_18_MARCH}

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hijs rythe worchypfwll mayster John Paston , sqwyere .
</font> PASTON,I,204.057.1508

<P_I,205>

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rythe worchypfwll brodere , I recomawnde me to +gow ;
PASTON,I,205.057.1509

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as fore +gour letter to my lorde Chawncelere , I haue not delyueryd
it , PASTON,I,205.057.1510

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I askyd auysse +tere-in PASTON,I,205.057.1511

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I was aunsweryd +tere-in +tat sythe he was takyn to baylle the
Chawncelere cowde not compelle +te swertys to bryng hym in be-fore hijs
day . PASTON,I,205.057.1512

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also me thowte +gour letter was not most plesauntly wrytyn to tak to
swyche a lorde . PASTON,I,205.057.1513

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore +te Tresorere , hijs name is Sire John Fooge ;
PASTON,I,205.057.1514

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he is not in London nore wythe +te Kyng , PASTON,I,205.057.1515

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I kan $not haue +te letter sent hym but if I hyeryd a man to bere it
. PASTON,I,205.057.1516

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore +gour question of +te patentys , Grenfeld and Catesby and
Sterkey holdyn it a good question , PASTON,I,205.057.1517

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te statut is Patentes dez tenementes dount null titill est troue`
pur le roy de recorde sount voydez - A=o= xviij=o= H. vj ca=o= vj=o= .
PASTON,I,205.057.1518

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I trow in +gour cas , and be there opiniounis , +te acte of +te
parlement is a tytyll of recorde . PASTON,I,205.057.1519

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd to +te contrary intent , thow +te londys be forfetyd of
record yet +tere is no certificacion of recorde qwat londys they be ,
nore were , nore in qwat place +tey lye ; PASTON,I,205.057.1520

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but and thys clawse be in +te patent , Non obstante quod nulla
inquisicio pro nobis inde est inuenta , by Grenfelde is consayte +te
patent xwld be clerly goode . PASTON,I,205.057.1521

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But me semythe +tat amendyt not +te mater , PASTON,I,205.057.1522

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore be-fore +te makyng of +te statut aboue sayde patentys graunttyd of
londys be-fore inquisicion were goode and effectuell
PASTON,I,205.057.1523

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te statut is generall , quod patentes dount null tytill , &c.
sount voydez . PASTON,I,205.057.1524

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tan it folowyt well if +te acte of parlement be no tytyll for +te Kyng
, +tan is +tere no tytyll fore +te Kyng of recorde ,
PASTON,I,205.057.1525

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +tat clawse in +te patent is no tytyll . PASTON,I,205.057.1526

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tan if +tere no tytyll ergo +te patent voyde . PASTON,I,205.057.1527

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My suster standythe in +te same casse wyth my lord of Kent .
PASTON,I,205.057.1528

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Broder , I pray +gow send more mony fore my neuew John ,
PASTON,I,205.057.1529

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he mwst ellys com hom a-+gen , PASTON,I,205.057.1530

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +te Kyng gothe in-to Scotlonde PASTON,I,205.057.1531

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is nowthere horsyd nor harneysyd , PASTON,I,205.057.1532

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore hijs grett horse is lykly to dye . PASTON,I,205.057.1533

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if +ge wyll sende it to me , ore to Cristofyre $Hanyngton , it xall
be saue fore hym . PASTON,I,205.057.1534

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send +gow a letter from hym closyde her-in . PASTON,I,205.057.1535

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray spek to my moder +tat my hors faylle not on Passyon Swnday ,
PASTON,I,205.057.1536

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore +tan xall I be redy PASTON,I,205.057.1537

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan xall owre redyng be don . PASTON,I,205.057.1538

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn on Twsday nexst after Seynt Gregory is Day .
PASTON,I,205.057.1539

AUTHOR:CLEMENT_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1442:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:BROTHER:1421:45
LETTER:PASTON_057:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowre broder Clement Paston PASTON,I,205.057.1540

<Q_PAS_C_1459_FN_EPOYNINGS> <L_PASTON_058>
<A_ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE>
<A-REL_DAUGHTER> <A-DOB_1429> <R_AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,206>

{ED:121._TO_AGNES_PASTON_1459,_3_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right worshypfull moder Agnes Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,206.058.1541

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right worshipfull and my most entierly beloude moder , in the most
louly maner I recommaund me vnto youre gode moderhode , besekeyng you
dayly and nyghtly of your moderly blissing , euer-more desiryng to here
of your welfare and prosperite` , +te which I pray God to contynw and
encresce to youre hertes desyre ; PASTON,I,206.058.1542

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf it lyked youre gode moderhode to here of me and how I do , at
the makyng of thys lettre I was in gode hele of body , $thanked be Jesu
. PASTON,I,206.058.1543

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my mayster , my bestbeloved that ye call , and I must nedes
call hym so now , PASTON,I,206.058.1544

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I fynde noon o+ter cause , and as I trust to Jesu neuer shall ;
PASTON,I,206.058.1545

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is full kynde vnto me , PASTON,I,206.058.1546

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is as besy as he can to make me sure of my joyntore , wherto he is
jbounde in a bonde of m=l= li. to you , moder , and to my bro+ter John
, and to my bro+ter William , and to Edmund Clere , the which neded no
such bond . Wherfore I beseke you , gode moder , as oure most syngler
trost is yn youre gode moderhode , that my maystre , my best beloved ,
fayle not of the c marc at the begynnyng of this terme the which ye
promysed hym to his mariage , wyth the remanent of the money of my
faders wille . PASTON,I,206.058.1547

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For I have promytted <P_I,207> faithfully to a gentilman called Bain ,
that was oon of my bestbeloved suertees and was bounde for hym in cc
li. , of which he reherseth for to resseyve at the begynnyng of thys
terme cxx li . PASTON,I,207.058.1548

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf he fayle +terof at this tyme he wille clayme the hool of vs ,
the which were to vs to grete an hurt . PASTON,I,207.058.1549

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he con not make an ende wyth noon of hys o+ter suertees wythoute
this seyd syluer , PASTON,I,207.058.1550

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that con my bro+ter John telle yow wel j-nough
PASTON,I,207.058.1551

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it lusteth hym to do soo . PASTON,I,207.058.1552

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in all o+ter thynges , as to my $Lady $Pool {TEXT:LadyPool} wyth
hom I soiourned , that ye wil be my tendre and gode moder that she may
be payde for all the costes doon to me before my maryage ;
PASTON,I,207.058.1553

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to Cristofre Hanson as ye wrote vnto my bro+ter John that it shuld
have ben so . PASTON,I,207.058.1554

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tat it plese youre gode moderhode to yeve credence to William
Worcestre . PASTON,I,207.058.1555

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Jesu for his grete mercy save yow . PASTON,I,207.058.1556

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Written at London the Wendysday the iij day of Janyuer .
PASTON,I,207.058.1557

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1429:30
RECIPIENT:AGNES_PASTON[N.BERRY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_058:M4:1459:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By youre humble doughter Elyzabeth Ponyngges PASTON,I,207.058.1558

<Q_PAS_C_1467?_FO_EPOYNINGS> <L_PASTON_059>
<A_ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_AUNT>
<A-DOB_1429> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_NEPHEW>
<R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,207>

{ED:122._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_PROBABLY_1467,_15_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To the worshipful Sir John Paston , knyght , be this delyueryd
jn hast . </font> PASTON,I,207.059.1559

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Worshipfull and with all myn hert interly wilbeloued nevoue , I
recomaunde me to yow , desyryng to here of your prosperite` and
wilefayre , which I pray all-myghti God maynteyn and encres to his
plesour and your hertes desire , thankyng God of your amendyng and
helth ; forthermore certefying yow +tat Sir Robert Fenys hath doon
grete hurte in +te lyuelode whiche perteyned to my husbond and me in
+te shire of Kent , wherin William Kene and o+ter persones arn enfeffid
, and gretly troubleth hit and receyueth <P_I,208> +te issuez and
profitez of gret part of theym . PASTON,I,208.059.1560

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as of my seid husbondes lyuelode aswell in +te same shire as in
o+ter shirez , besyde myn jountur , my seid husbond whan he departyd
towarde +te feld of Saint Albons made and ordeyned his wille +tat I
shuld haue +te rewell of all his lyuelode , and of Edwarde , his soon
and myn , and to take +te issuez and profitez of +te seid lyuelode to
+te fyndyng of his and myn seid son , to paie his detteez and to kepe
+te right and title of +te same lyuelode which I myght nat accordyng
occupie for Ser Edwarde Ponynges , myn seid husbondes brother .
PASTON,I,208.059.1561

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And so , sith myn seid husbondes departyng , I assigned +tat +te seid
Ser Edwarde for certeyn yereez shuld haue and take +te reuenuez of +te
maners of Westwode , Estwell , Leuelond , Horsmonden , Totyndon ,
Eccles , Staundon , and Comebesden , parcell of +te seid lyuelode ,
which arn clerely yerely worth lxxvj li. xiij s. iiij d. , to +te
entent +tat +te seid Ser Edwarde shuld paye myn husbondes detteez ,
PASTON,I,208.059.1562

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for he wold not suffer me to be in rest without +tat he myght haue a
rewell in +te lyvelode . PASTON,I,208.059.1563

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And after +te seid assignement made , +te seid Robert Fenes , contrary
to trowth and withoute cause of right , interupted me and +te seid Ser
Edwarde aswell of and in +te seid maners as of o+ter maners vndirwretyn
, wher-vppon +te same Ser Edwarde suet vnto +te Kynges highnesse and
hade +te Kyngez honorable lettres vndir his signet directed to +te seid
Ser Robert Fenys , +te tenour wher-of I send vnto yow herin inclossid .
PASTON,I,208.059.1564

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for residue of +te lyuelode of myn seid husbondes and myn within
+te same shire of Kent wherin +te seid William Kene and o+ter arn
enfeffed , that is to say +te manerz of $Tyrlyngham , Woluerton ,
Halton , Newyngton , Bartram , Rokesley , and Northcray , with
th'appurtenauncez , I of them by myn seid husbondes wille shuld haue
residue and take +te issuez and profitez of theym .
PASTON,I,208.059.1565

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Contrarye to right and conciens , takyng away my ryght and brekyng my
seid husbondes wille +te seid Robert Fenys hath doon gret wast and
hurte ther , PASTON,I,208.059.1566

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and longtym hath take vpe +te reuenuez and profitez of +te same ,
wherthorough I haue not my ryght PASTON,I,208.059.1567

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and +te seid wille may not be parfourmed . Wherfor I hertely pray yow
+tat +ge will laboure vnto +te Kynges highnes at yt lyketh hym addres
his honorable lettres to be directed to +te seid Robert Fenys ,
dischargyng hym vtterly of +te menuraunce , occupacion , and receyt of
+te reuenuez of +te said maners of Tyrlyngham and o+ter , accordyng to
+te tenour of +te lettres labored by Ser Edwarde for +te maners
assigned to hym from +te Kynges highnes directyd to +te same Robert
Fynez , or strayter if hit may be , PASTON,I,208.059.1568

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and +tat I and myn assignez may peasseble` reioce theym ;
PASTON,I,208.059.1569

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if eny person wold attempt to do +te contrarye +tat a commaundement
, yf it ples +te Kynges highnes , by hym myght be yevyn to my lorde
Chaunceller to seall writtynges sufficiaunt with his gret seall in
eydyng and assistyng me and myn assignez in +te same .
PASTON,I,208.059.1570

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for <P_I,209> +te maners of Esthall , Faukham , Asshe , and
Chelsfeld , with th'appurtenauncez , in +te said schire of Kent ,
wherof my husbond at his departur was seassed , and my son sethens vnto
+te tyme +tat +te Erle of Kent , without eny $jnquisision or title of
right for +te Kyng , by colour of +te Kynges lettres patentes entret
in-to theym and hym ther-of put owte ; and now myn lorde of Essexe
occupieth them in lyke maner and fourme . PASTON,I,209.059.1571

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yf eny remedy therin $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} hade I pray yow attempt hit
. PASTON,I,209.059.1572

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Also forther-more I hertely pray yow +tat , if eny generall pardon be
grauntyd , +tat I may haue on for John Dane my $seruaunt , whom +te
said Robert Fenys of gret malice hath endyted of felonye ; and +tat +ge
secretly labour +tis and send me an aunsewer in writtyng in as godly
hast as {in}_P +ge may . PASTON,I,209.059.1573

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As soon as yt may ples yow to send me passels of costez and expences
+ge bere and pay for +te said causez I will truely content yow hit of
+te same , and ouer +tat rewarde yow to your plessour , by +te grace of
Jesu , quo haue yow in his blessed keping . PASTON,I,209.059.1574

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_POYNINGS/BROWNE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:AUNT:1429:38?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:NEPHEW:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_059:M4:1467?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrettyn in Suthwerk the xv=te= daie of Decembyre . By your awnt
Elizabeth Ponynges PASTON,I,209.059.1575

<Q_PAS_C_1448_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_060> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,220>

{ED:128._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1448,_APRIL}

<P_I,221>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth wurchypful hwsbond Jon Paston be +tis lettyre
delyveryd jn hast . </font> PASTON,I,221.060.1576

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth wyrchypful hwsbond , I recomawnd me to +gw , desyryng hertyly to
heryn of +gwr wel-fare , praying +gw to wete +tat I was wyth my Lady
Morley on +te Satyrday nexst after +tat +ge departyd from hens , and
told here qhat answere +tat +ge had of Jon Butt ; PASTON,I,221.060.1577

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche toke jt ryth $strawngely PASTON,I,221.060.1578

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat sche had told +gw and schewyd +gw j-now qhere-by +ge myth
have knowleche +tat +te releve owyth to ben payd to here .
PASTON,I,221.060.1579

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche seyd sche wyst wel +tat +ge delay jt for+te +tat sche xuld
nowth have +tat longyth to here ryth . PASTON,I,221.060.1580

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche told me hw jt was payd in Thomas Chawmberys tym , qhan here
dowter Hastyngys was weddyd ; PASTON,I,221.060.1581

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche seyd sythyn +tat +ge wyl make none end wyth here sche wyl sew
+ter-fore as law wyl . PASTON,I,221.060.1582

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I conseyvyd be here +tat sche had cwnsel to labore a+gens +gw +ter-jn
wyth-jn ryth schort tym . PASTON,I,221.060.1583

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tan I prayd here +tat sche wuld vwche-save nowth to labowre a+gens
+gw jn +tis matere tyl +ge kom hom ; PASTON,I,221.060.1584

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche seyd nay , PASTON,I,221.060.1585

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
be here feyth sche wuld no more days +geve +gw +terjn .
PASTON,I,221.060.1586

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche seyd sche had sett +gw so many days to a-kord wyth here and +ge
had broke +tem +tat sche was ryth wery +ter-of ; PASTON,I,221.060.1587

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche seyd sche was but a woman , PASTON,I,221.060.1588

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sche must don be here cownseyl , PASTON,I,221.060.1589

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and here cwnseyle had avysyd here , PASTON,I,221.060.1590

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so sche seyd sche wyld do . PASTON,I,221.060.1591

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tan I prayd here a+gyn +tat sche wuld teryn tyl +ge kom hom ,
PASTON,I,221.060.1592

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd I trostyd veryly +tat +ge wuld don qhan +ge kom hom as jtt
longyth to +gw to don ; PASTON,I,221.060.1593

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf +ge myth have very knowleche +tat sche awyth of ryth for to have
jtt , I seyd I wyst <P_I,222> wel +tat +ge wuld pay jt wyth ryth gode
wyl , PASTON,I,222.060.1594

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told here +tat +ge had sergyd to a fownd wrytyng +ter-of
PASTON,I,222.060.1595

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ge kwd non fynd in non wyse . PASTON,I,222.060.1596

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche sayd sche wyst wele +ter was wrytyng +ter-of j-now ,
PASTON,I,222.060.1597

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche hath wrytyng +ter-of hw Syre Robert of Mawthby and Ser Jon and
myn grawnsyre , and dyverse o+ter of myn awnceterys , payd jt and seyd
nevyre nay +ter-to . PASTON,I,222.060.1598

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And jn no wyse I kwd not getyn no grawnth of here to sesyn tyl +ge kom
hom . PASTON,I,222.060.1599

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche bad me +tat I xuld don an erund to my moder ;
PASTON,I,222.060.1600

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and qhan I kam hom I dede myn erund to here , PASTON,I,222.060.1601

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche axyd me jf I had spokyn to my lady of +tis forseyd matere ,
PASTON,I,222.060.1602

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I told here hw I had do and qhat answere I had .
PASTON,I,222.060.1603

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche seyd sche xuld gon to my Lady Morle`s on +te nexst day ,
PASTON,I,222.060.1604

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche xuld speken to here +ter-of and a-say to getyn grawnt of here
to sesyn of +te forsayd matere tyl +tat +ge kom hom .
PASTON,I,222.060.1605

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And truly my moder dede here devere ryth feythfully +ter-jn , as myn
cosyn Clere xal tellyn +gw qhan +tat he spekyth wyth +gw ,
PASTON,I,222.060.1606

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche gete grawnt of my seyd lady +tat +ter xuld nowth ben don
a+gens +gw +terjn PASTON,I,222.060.1607

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ge wold acordyn wyth here and don as +ge owyn to do be-twyx +tis
tym and Trinyte` Sunday . PASTON,I,222.060.1608

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Laverawnce Rede of Mawthby $recommawndyth hym to +gu
PASTON,I,222.060.1609

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayith +gw +tat +ge wyl vwchesave to leten hym byn of +gw +te ferm
barly +tat +ge xuld have of hym , PASTON,I,222.060.1610

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf +ge wyl laten hym have jt to a resonabyl pris he wyl have jt
wyth ryth a gode wyl . PASTON,I,222.060.1611

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he prayit +gw , jf +ge wyl +tat he have jt , +tat +ge wyl
vwche-save to send hym wurd at qhat pris he xuld have +te kowmb as
hastyly as +ge may , PASTON,I,222.060.1612

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ellys he must be purvayd in o+ter plase . PASTON,I,222.060.1613

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As twchyng o+ter tydyngys I sopose Jon of Dam xal send +gw wurd jn a
letter . PASTON,I,222.060.1614

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As jt js told me veryly , Heydon xal not kom at London +tis term .
PASTON,I,222.060.1615

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd jn +tis contre` +tat Danyel js owth of +te Kyngys gode grase
, PASTON,I,222.060.1616

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he xal dwn and all hys mene and all +tat ben hys wele-wyllerys .
PASTON,I,222.060.1617

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Ter xal no man ben so hardy to don no+ter seyn a+gens my lord of
Sowthfolk nere non +tat longyth to hym ; PASTON,I,222.060.1618

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all +tat han don and seyd a+gens hym , +tey xul sore repent +tem .
PASTON,I,222.060.1619

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Kateryn Walsam xal be weddyd on +te Munday nexst after Trinyte` Sonday
, as it is told me , to +te $galawnte wyth +te grete chene ;
PASTON,I,222.060.1620

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter js purvayd fore here meche gode aray of gwnys , gyrdelys , and
atyrys , and meche o+ter gode aray . PASTON,I,222.060.1621

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he hathe purcheysyd a gret purcheys of v mark be +gere to +gevyn
here to here joynture . PASTON,I,222.060.1622

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am aferd +tat Jon of Sparham js so schyttyl-wyttyd +tat he wyl sett
hys gode to morgage to Heydon , or to sum o+ter of vwre gode frendys ,
but jf I can hold hym jnne +te better ere +ge kom hom .
PASTON,I,222.060.1623

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hath ben arestyd sythyn +tat +ge went , PASTON,I,222.060.1624

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath had moche sorw at +te sewte of Mayster Jon Stokys of London
for x mark +tat Sparham owyth to hym ; PASTON,I,222.060.1625

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jn gode feyth he hath had so moche sorow and hevynesse +tat he wyst
nowth qhat he myth don . PASTON,I,222.060.1626

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I felt hym so disposyd +tat he wold a sold and a sett to morgage all
+tat he hath , PASTON,I,222.060.1627

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he had nowth rowth to qhom so +tat he myth an had mony to <P_I,223> an
holpyn hym-self wyth . PASTON,I,223.060.1628

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I entretyd hym so +tatt I sopose he wyl no+ter sellyn nere sett to
morgage no+ter catel nere o+ter gode of hese tyl he speke wyth +gw .
PASTON,I,223.060.1629

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He soposeth +tat al +tat js don to hym js att +te request of +te parson
of Sparham and Knatylsale . PASTON,I,223.060.1630

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sopose jt is almas to confort hym , PASTON,I,223.060.1631

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for jn gode feyth he js ryth hevy and hys wyf al-so .
PASTON,I,223.060.1632

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He js nowth nw vnder arest , PASTON,I,223.060.1633

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he hath payd hys feys PASTON,I,223.060.1634

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and goth att large . PASTON,I,223.060.1635

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was arestyd att Sparham of on of Knetysalys men .
PASTON,I,223.060.1636

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hodge Foke told me +tat Sym Schepherd js styl wyth Wylly ,
PASTON,I,223.060.1637

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf +ge wyl I xal purvey +tat he xal be browth hom ere +ge kom hom .
PASTON,I,223.060.1638

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It js told me +tat he +tat kepyth +gwr schep was owth-lawyd on Munday
at +te swth of Ser Thomas Todynham , PASTON,I,223.060.1639

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf jt be so +ge arn nowth lyk to kepe hym longe .
PASTON,I,223.060.1640

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as twchyng +tat +tat +ge bodeyn me spekyn for to Bakton , he seyth
he js wel avysyd +tat sche seyd sche wuld neuer have to done wyth all ,
PASTON,I,223.060.1641

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nere he kan not +tenk +tat sche hath non ryth to have jt .
PASTON,I,223.060.1642

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he wyl say lyche as he hath herd here seyd , PASTON,I,223.060.1643

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf sche speke to hym +ter-of he wyll ra+ter hold wyth +gw +tan wyth
here . PASTON,I,223.060.1644

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw +tat +ge wyl vwche-save to send me wurd hw +ge spede in +gwr
mater twchyng Gressam , and hw Danyel js jn grace .
PASTON,I,223.060.1645

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Herry Goneld hath browth to me xl s. of Gressam syn +ge +gede ,
PASTON,I,223.060.1646

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth I xal have more or Qhythson tyd jf he may pyk jt vp .
PASTON,I,223.060.1647

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sopose Jamys Gressam hath told +gw of o+ter thyngys +tat I have sped
syn +ge +gedyn hens . PASTON,I,223.060.1648

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I here any $strawnge tydyngys in +tis contre` I xall send +gw wurd .
PASTON,I,223.060.1649

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw +tat I may ben $recommawndyd to my lord Danyel .
PASTON,I,223.060.1650

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te Holy Trynyte` have +gw jn hys kepyng PASTON,I,223.060.1651

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +gw helth and gode spede jn all +gwr materys twchyng +gwr ryth
. PASTON,I,223.060.1652

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on +te Wedenys-day nexst after +tatt +ge partyd hens
. PASTON,I,223.060.1653

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_060:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gwrys , Margarete Paston PASTON,I,223.060.1654

<Q_PAS_C_1448_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_061> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,223>

{ED:129._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1448,_19_MAY}

<P_I,224>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worshipfull husbond , I recomaund me to yow ,
PASTON,I,224.061.1655

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prey yow to wete +tat on Friday last passed be-fore noon , +te
parson of Oxened beyng at messe in our parossh chirche , euyn $at $te
{TEXT:atte} leuacion of +te sakeryng , Jamys Gloys hadde ben in +te
tovne and come homward by Wymondams gate . PASTON,I,224.061.1656

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Wymondam stod in his gate PASTON,I,224.061.1657

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and John Norwode his man stod by hym , PASTON,I,224.061.1658

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Thomas Hawys his othir man stod in +te strete by +te canell side .
PASTON,I,224.061.1659

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Jamys Gloys come with his hatte on his hede betwen bothe his men ,
as he was wont of custome to do . PASTON,I,224.061.1660

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whanne Gloys was a-yenst Wymondham he seid +tus ,
PASTON,I,224.061.1661

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
' Couere thy heed ! ' PASTON,I,224.061.1662

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Gloys seid ageyn , ' So I shall for the . ' PASTON,I,224.061.1663

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whanne Gloys was forther passed by +te space of iij or iiij strede
, Wymondham drew owt his dagger PASTON,I,224.061.1664

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seid , ' Shalt +tow so , knave ? ' PASTON,I,224.061.1665

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +terwith Gloys turned hym PASTON,I,224.061.1666

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and drewe owt his dagger PASTON,I,224.061.1667

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and defendet hym , fleyng in-to my moderis place ;
PASTON,I,224.061.1668

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Wymondham and his man Hawys kest stonys PASTON,I,224.061.1669

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and dreve Gloys into my moderis place . PASTON,I,224.061.1670

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Hawys folwyd into my moderis place PASTON,I,224.061.1671

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and kest a ston as meche as a forthyng lof into +te halle after Gloys ;
PASTON,I,224.061.1672

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan ran owt of +te place ageyn . PASTON,I,224.061.1673

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Gloys folwyd owt PASTON,I,224.061.1674

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and stod with-owt +te gate , PASTON,I,224.061.1675

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tanne Wymondham called Gloys thef PASTON,I,224.061.1676

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seid he shuld dye , PASTON,I,224.061.1677

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Gloys seid he lyed PASTON,I,224.061.1678

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and called hym charl , PASTON,I,224.061.1679

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and bad hym come hym-self or ell +te best man he hadde ,
PASTON,I,224.061.1680

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Gloys wold answere hym on for on . PASTON,I,224.061.1681

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tanne Haweys ran into Wymondhams place PASTON,I,224.061.1682

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and feched a spere and a swerd , PASTON,I,224.061.1683

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and toke his maister his swerd . PASTON,I,224.061.1684

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And with +te noise of +tis a-saut and affray my modir and I come owt of
+te chirche from +te sakeryng ; PASTON,I,224.061.1685

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I bad Gloys go in to my moderis place ageyn , PASTON,I,224.061.1686

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he dede . PASTON,I,224.061.1687

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thanne Wymondham called my moder and me strong hores ,
PASTON,I,224.061.1688

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seid +te Pastons and alle her kyn were $Gemyngham <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,224.061.1689

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
e seid he lyed , knave and charl as he was . PASTON,I,224.061.1690

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he had meche large langage , as ye shall knowe her-after by mowthe
. PASTON,I,224.061.1691

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After non my modir and I yede to +te Priour of Norwich
PASTON,I,224.061.1692

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told hym al +tis cas , PASTON,I,224.061.1693

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te Priour sent for Wymondham PASTON,I,224.061.1694

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +terwhyle we yede hom a-geyn PASTON,I,224.061.1695

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Pagraue come with vs hom . PASTON,I,224.061.1696

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whil Wymondham was with +te Priour , and we were at hom in our
places , Gloys stod in +te strete at my moderis gate
PASTON,I,224.061.1697

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Hawys aspyed hym +tere as he stod on +te Lady Hastyngis chambre .
PASTON,I,224.061.1698

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A-non he come doun with a tohand swerd PASTON,I,224.061.1699

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and assauted ageyn +te seid Gloys and Thomas my moderis man ,
PASTON,I,224.061.1700

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete flye a strok at Thomas with +te sword PASTON,I,224.061.1701

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and rippled his hand with his sword . PASTON,I,224.061.1702

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te latter assaut +te parson of Oxened sygh it
PASTON,I,224.061.1703

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wole a-vowe it . PASTON,I,224.061.1704

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And moche more thyng was do , as Gloys can tell yow by mouthe .
PASTON,I,224.061.1705

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for +te perilx of +tat <P_I,225> myght happe by +tese premysses and
+te circumstances +terof to be eschewed , by +t'aduyse of my modir and
o+ter I send yow Gloys to attend up-on yow for a seson , for ease of
myn owen hert ; PASTON,I,225.061.1706

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in good feyth I wolde not for xl li. haue suyche an-o+ter trouble .
PASTON,I,225.061.1707

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As touchyng my Lady Morle` , she seith +tat she atte hire will wole
haue +te benyfyce of hire obligacion , PASTON,I,225.061.1708

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for hir counseyll telleth hir , as she seith , +tat it is forfayt .
PASTON,I,225.061.1709

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she wole not haue the relif til she hath your homage , &c .
PASTON,I,225.061.1710

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Lord Moleyns man gaderyth up +te rent at Gresham a gret pace ,
PASTON,I,225.061.1711

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Jamys Gresham shall telle yow more pleynly +terof at his comyng .
PASTON,I,225.061.1712

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nomore at +tis tyme , but Almyghty God haue yow in his kepyng .
PASTON,I,225.061.1713

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Trynyte` Sunday at euyn . PASTON,I,225.061.1714

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yours , Margarete Paston PASTON,I,225.061.1715

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As touchyng Roger Foke , Gloys shall telle yow all , &c .
PASTON,I,225.061.1716

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Qwhan Wymdham seyd +tat Jamys xuld dy I seyd to hym +tat I soposyd +tat
he xuld repent hym jf he schlow hym or dede to hym any bodyly harm ;
PASTON,I,225.061.1717

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd nay , PASTON,I,225.061.1718

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he xuld never repent hym ner have a ferdyng wurth of harm +tow he kelyd
+gw and hym bothe . PASTON,I,225.061.1719

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I seyd +gys , and he sclow +te lest chylde +tat longyth to +gwr
kechyn , PASTON,I,225.061.1720

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jf he dede he were lyke , I sopose , to dy for hym .
PASTON,I,225.061.1721

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It js told me +tat he xall kom to London jn hast .
PASTON,I,225.061.1722

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw be ware hw +ge walkyn jf he be +tere , PASTON,I,225.061.1723

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he js ful cursyd-hertyd and lwmysch . PASTON,I,225.061.1724

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wot wel he wyl not set vp-on +gw manly , PASTON,I,225.061.1725

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I be-leve he wyl styrt vp-on +gw or on sum of +gwr men leke a thef
. PASTON,I,225.061.1726

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw hertyly +tat +ge late not Jamys kom hom a+gen in non wyse
tyl +ge kom home , for myn hertys ese ; PASTON,I,225.061.1727

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be my trwth I wold not +tat he were hurt , ner non man +tat longyth
to +gw jn +gwr absens for xx pwnd . PASTON,I,225.061.1728

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in gode feyth he js sore hatyd both-1 of Wymdam and sum of hys men
, and of o+ter +tat Wymdam tellyth to hys tale as hym lyst ,
PASTON,I,225.061.1729

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +ter as Wymdam tellyth hys tale he makyth hem $be-levyn +tat Jamys
js gylty and he no +tyng gylty . PASTON,I,225.061.1730

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw hertyly here masse and o+ter servys +tat +ge arn bwn to here
wyth a devwt hert , PASTON,I,225.061.1731

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I hope veryly +tat +ge xal spede ryth wele in all +gwr materys , be
the grase of God . PASTON,I,225.061.1732

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Trust veryly in God PASTON,I,225.061.1733

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and leve hym PASTON,I,225.061.1734

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and serve hym , PASTON,I,225.061.1735

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wyl not deseve +gw . PASTON,I,225.061.1736

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_061:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Of all o+ter materys I xall sent +gw wurd jn hast .
PASTON,I,225.061.1737

<Q_PAS_C_1448_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_062> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,226>

{ED:130._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1448}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt wurchipful hwsbond , I recomawnd me to +gu PASTON,I,226.062.1738

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prey +gw to gete som crosse bowis , and wyndacis to bynd +tem wyth
, and quarell , PASTON,I,226.062.1739

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +gwr hwsis here ben so low +tat +tere may non man schete owt wyth
no long bowe +tow we hadde neuer so moche nede . PASTON,I,226.062.1740

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sopose +ge xuld haue seche thyngis of Sere Jon Fastolf if +ge wold
send to hym . PASTON,I,226.062.1741

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I wold +ge xuld gete ij or iij schort pelle-axis to kepe wyth
doris , and als many jakkys and +ge may . PASTON,I,226.062.1742

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Partryche and his felaschep arn sore aferyd +tat +ge wold entren a+gen
up-on hem , PASTON,I,226.062.1743

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tey haue made grete $ordynawnce wyth-jnne +te hwse , as it is told
me . PASTON,I,226.062.1744

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tey haue made barris to barre the dorys crosse-weyse ,
PASTON,I,226.062.1745

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tey han made wyketis on euery quarter of +te hwse to schete owte
atte , bothe wyth bowys and wyth hand gunnys ; PASTON,I,226.062.1746

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +to holys +tat ben made forre hand gunnyss +tey ben scarse kne hey
fro +te plawnchere , PASTON,I,226.062.1747

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and of seche holis ben made fyve . PASTON,I,226.062.1748

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tere can non man schete owt at +tem wyth no hand bowys .
PASTON,I,226.062.1749

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Purry felle in felaschepe wyth Willyam Hasard at Querles ,
PASTON,I,226.062.1750

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told hym +tat he wold com and drynk wyth Partryche and wyth hym ,
PASTON,I,226.062.1751

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he xuld ben welcom ; PASTON,I,226.062.1752

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and after none he went +tedder for to aspye qhat +tey dedyn and qhat
fela-schep +tey hadde wyth +tem . PASTON,I,226.062.1753

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And qhan he com +tedder +te doris were fast sperid
PASTON,I,226.062.1754

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tere were non folkis wyth hem but Maryoth and Capron and his wyff
and Querles wyf $and ano+ter man in ablac +gede sumqhate haltyng ;
PASTON,I,226.062.1755

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $sopose be his wurdis +tat it was Norfolk of Gemyngham .
PASTON,I,226.062.1756

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seyd Purry aspyde alle +tis forseyd thyngis ,
PASTON,I,226.062.1757

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Marioth and his felaschep had meche grette langage +tat xall ben
told +gw qhen +ge kom hom . PASTON,I,226.062.1758

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gw +tat +ge wyl vowche-save to don bye for me j li. of almandis
and j li. of sugyre , and +tat +ge wille do byen summe frese to maken
of <P_I,227> +gwr childeris gwnys ; +ge xall haue best chepe and best
choyse of Hayis wyf , as it is told me . And +tat +ge wyld bye a +gerd
of brode clothe of blac for an hode fore me of xliijj d. or iiij s. a
+gerd , PASTON,I,227.062.1759

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for $+ter is $nothere gode cloth nere god fryse in this twn .
PASTON,I,227.062.1760

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +te childeris gwnys , and I haue cloth I xal do hem maken .
PASTON,I,227.062.1761

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Trynyte` haue +gw jn his keping PASTON,I,227.062.1762

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_062:M4:1448:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +gw gode spede in alle +gwr materis . PASTON,I,227.062.1763

<Q_PAS_C_1449_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_063> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,227>

{ED:131._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1449,_15_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryt+g wurchipful mayster Jon Paston be +tis delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,227.063.1764

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt wurchipful hosbond , I recommawnd me to +gou , desyryng hertyly to
heryn of +gowr wele-fare , $preying +gou to weten +tat I commawndyd
Herry Goneld to gon to Gunnore to have copys of +te pleyntys in +te
hundrede . PASTON,I,227.063.1765

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Gunnore was not att hom , PASTON,I,227.063.1766

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but +te seyd Herry spake wyth his clerk , PASTON,I,227.063.1767

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told hym pleynly he wost wele his mayster wuld not late hym have
no copys , +tow he wer att hom , tyl +te nexst hundred ; qher-for I
send +gou +tat byl +tat was wownd abowt +te relefys .
PASTON,I,227.063.1768

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Custans Mak and Kentyng wold a dysavowyd here swtys ryt+g fayn +te last
hundred , as I herd sayn of ryt+g thryfty men ; PASTON,I,227.063.1769

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but +te Lord Moleynys men thrett hem +tat bothe +tey xuld ben betyn and
lesen here hws and lond and all here goodys but if +tey wold avow it .
PASTON,I,227.063.1770

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after +tat Osborn was gon , Hasard intretyd Kentyng and Mak to avow
+te swtys after +tat +tey hadde disavowyd itt , PASTON,I,227.063.1771

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +gave hem mony to +gef to +te clerkys to entren a+gen +te pleyntys
. PASTON,I,227.063.1772

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But jf +ge seke a remedy in hast for to remeve itt I soppose +tey wyl
distreyn for +te mersymentys er +te nexst hundred .
PASTON,I,227.063.1773

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Mak , he gate respyt +tat he xuld <P_I,228> not sew tyl +te
nexst hundred . PASTON,I,228.063.1774

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Herry Goneld , he was dystreynyd +gysterday for rent and ferm ,
PASTON,I,228.063.1775

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he must pay it to-morn , xxij s. , or ell lesyn his dystresse .
PASTON,I,228.063.1776

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tey gadder mony fast of all +te tenawntys . PASTON,I,228.063.1777

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Al +te tenawntys ben chargyd to pay al here rent and ferm be Fastyngong
Sonday . PASTON,I,228.063.1778

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys told me +tat +te Lord Moleynys xuld kepe his Fastyngong att Jon
Wynterys plase . PASTON,I,228.063.1779

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The seyd lordys men haddyn a letter on Thursday last past ;
PASTON,I,228.063.1780

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
qhat tydyngys +tey hadde I wote nott , PASTON,I,228.063.1781

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but on +te nexst mornnyng be tymys Thomas Bampton , a man of +te Lord
Moleynys , rod wyth a letter to his lord , PASTON,I,228.063.1782

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tey +tat ben att Gressam waytyn after an answere of +te letter in
hast . PASTON,I,228.063.1783

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Barow and Hegon and all +te Lord Moleynys men +tat were att Gressam
qhan +ge departyd hens ben there styll , save Bampton ,
PASTON,I,228.063.1784

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in his stede is kom anothere , PASTON,I,228.063.1785

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I here sey +tei xul abyd here styll tyl here lord kom <em> ...
</em> PASTON,I,228.063.1786

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to Barow as +ge komawndyd me , to weten qhatt +te cawse was +tat +tei
thrett men <em> ... </em> . PASTON,I,228.063.1787

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Goneld and other of +gowr servawntys and wele-willerys to +gow +te
qheche were namyd to hym +tat were thrett <em> ... swore </em> pleynly
+tatt +tey were never thrett ; PASTON,I,228.063.1788

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I know veryly +te contrary , PASTON,I,228.063.1789

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for of his own felaschep lay <em> ..._NP-SBJ </em> in awayt sondery
dayis and nytys abowt Gunneldys , Purrys , and Bekkys plasys .
PASTON,I,228.063.1790

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And som of +tem +gedyn in-to Bekkys and Purrys $hwsys , bothen-1 in +te
hallys and +te bernys , PASTON,I,228.063.1791

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and askyd qher +tei were ; PASTON,I,228.063.1792

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tei were answeryd +tat +tey were owth , PASTON,I,228.063.1793

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tei seydyn a+gen +tat +tey xuld meten wyth hem ano+ter tym .
PASTON,I,228.063.1794

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And be dyuers o+ter thyngys I know if +tei myt+g a ben kawt o+ter +tey
xuld a ben slayn or sore hurt . PASTON,I,228.063.1795

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent Kateryn on +tis forseyd masage , PASTON,I,228.063.1796

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I kowd geten no man to do it , PASTON,I,228.063.1797

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent wyth here Jamys Halman and Herry Holt ; PASTON,I,228.063.1798

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche desyryd of Barow to have an anshere of here masage , and if
+tese forseyd men myt+g levyn in pese for hem , PASTON,I,228.063.1799

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +ter xuld ell ben purveyd other remedy for hem .
PASTON,I,228.063.1800

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he made here grett chere , and hem +tat were +tere wyth here ,
PASTON,I,228.063.1801

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat he desyryd for to speken wyth me if it xuld ben non
displesans to me . PASTON,I,228.063.1802

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Kateryn seyd to hym +tat sche supposyd +tat I desyryd not to speken
wyth hym . PASTON,I,228.063.1803

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he seyd he xuld com forby +tis plase on huntyng after non ,
PASTON,I,228.063.1804

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter xuld nomore com wyth hym but Hegon and on of his owyn men ,
PASTON,I,228.063.1805

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan he wold bryng seche an answere as xuld plese me .
PASTON,I,228.063.1806

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after none +tey com hydder PASTON,I,228.063.1807

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent in to me to weten if +tei myt+g speken wyth me , and praying
+tat +tei myt+g speken wyth me ; PASTON,I,228.063.1808

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and <P_I,229> +tey abedyn styl wyth-owt+g +te +gatys ,
PASTON,I,229.063.1809

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I kam owth to hem PASTON,I,229.063.1810

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and spak wyth hem wyth-owt , PASTON,I,229.063.1811

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayid hem +tat +tey wold hold me exkusyd +tat I browth hem not in
to +te plase . PASTON,I,229.063.1812

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd in as meche as +tei were nott welewyllyng to +te godeman of +te
plase I wold not take it up-on me to bryng hem in to +te jantylwoman .
PASTON,I,229.063.1813

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tey seyd I dede +te best , PASTON,I,229.063.1814

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan we welk forthe PASTON,I,229.063.1815

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyryd an answere of hem for +tat I hadde sent to hem fore .
PASTON,I,229.063.1816

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei sayd to me +tei had browt+g me seche an answere as +tei hopyd xuld
plese me , PASTON,I,229.063.1817

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told me how +tei had comownd wyth all her felaschep of seche
materis as I had sent to hem fore , and +tat +tei durst under-take +tat
+ter xud no man ben hurt of hem +tatt were rehersyd , nere noman +tat
longyth to +gou no+ter , for hem nere non of here felaschep ; and +tat
+tey inswryd me be here trowthis . PASTON,I,229.063.1818

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nevere lese I trest not to here promese in as meche as I fend hem
on-trew in o+ter thyngys . PASTON,I,229.063.1819

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I conseyvyd wele be hem +tat +tey were wery of +tat +tei haden don .
PASTON,I,229.063.1820

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Barow swor to me be his trowth +tat he had lever +tan xl s. and xl +tat
his lord had not commawndyd hym to com to Gressam ,
PASTON,I,229.063.1821

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he was ryt+g sory hidderward in as meche as he had
knowleche of +gw be-fore ; PASTON,I,229.063.1822

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he was ryt+g sory of +tat +tat was don . PASTON,I,229.063.1823

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd to hym +tat he xuld haue compascion on +gou and o+ter +tat were
dissesyd of her lyvelode , in as meche as he had ben dissesyd hym-self
; PASTON,I,229.063.1824

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he was so , PASTON,I,229.063.1825

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told me +tat he had sewyd to my lord of Suffolk dyuers tymys ,
PASTON,I,229.063.1826

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wold don tyl he may gete his gode a+gen . PASTON,I,229.063.1827

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd to hym +tat +ge had sewyd to my Lord Moleynys dyuers tymys for
+te maner of Gressam syth +ge wer dissesyd , and +ge cowd neuer gete no
resonabyl answere of hym , PASTON,I,229.063.1828

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter-fore +ge entred a+gen as +ge hopid +tat was for +te best .
PASTON,I,229.063.1829

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he seyd he xuld neuer blame my lord of Suffolk for +te entre` in
his lyvelode , PASTON,I,229.063.1830

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyd my seyd lord was sett +ter-up-on be +te informacion of a
fals schrew . PASTON,I,229.063.1831

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I seyd to hym in lyke wyse is +te mater be-twyx +te Lord Moleynys
and +gou : PASTON,I,229.063.1832

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told hym I wost wele he sett neuer +ter-vp-on be no tytyl of ryt+g
+tat he hadde to +te maner of Gressam , but only be +te informacion of
a fals schrew . PASTON,I,229.063.1833

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I rehersyd no name , PASTON,I,229.063.1834

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but me thowt be hem +tat +tei wost ho I ment . PASTON,I,229.063.1835

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Meche o+ter langage we hadde qhyche xuld taken long leysyr in wrytyng .
PASTON,I,229.063.1836

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I rehersyd to hem +tat it xuld a be seyd +tatt I xuld not longe dwell
so nere hem as I do ; PASTON,I,229.063.1837

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tey for-swere it , as +tei do o+ter thyngys more , +tat it was
neuer seyd ; and meche thyng +tat I know veryly was seyd .
PASTON,I,229.063.1838

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I here seyn +tat +ge and Jon of Damme ben sore thrett alway , and seyn
+tow +ge ben at London +ge xul ben met wyth there as wele as +tow +ge
were here ; PASTON,I,229.063.1839

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter-for I pray +gou hertyly be ware hw +ge walk +tere
PASTON,I,229.063.1840

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue a <P_I,230> gode felaschep wyth +gou qhan +ge xul walk owt+g .
PASTON,I,230.063.1841

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Lord Moleynys hathe a cumpany of brothell wyth hym +tat rekk not
qhat +tey don , PASTON,I,230.063.1842

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seche are most for to drede . PASTON,I,230.063.1843

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei +tat ben at Gressam seyn +tat +tey haue not don so moche hurt to
+gou as +tei were commawndyd to don . PASTON,I,230.063.1844

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rabert Laverawns is wele amendyd PASTON,I,230.063.1845

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I hope xall recure . PASTON,I,230.063.1846

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyth pleynly he wyl compleyn of his hurt , PASTON,I,230.063.1847

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose Bek wyl compleyn also , as he hath cause .
PASTON,I,230.063.1848

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Bek and Purry dare not abyd att hom tyl +tei here o+ter tydyngys .
PASTON,I,230.063.1849

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold not Jon of Damme xuld com hom tyl +te cuntre` be storyd
o+terwyse +tan it is . PASTON,I,230.063.1850

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray Godde grawnt +tat it mot sone ben o+terwyse +tan it is .
PASTON,I,230.063.1851

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou hertyly +tat +ge wil send me wurd how +ge don and how +ge
spede in +gowr materis , PASTON,I,230.063.1852

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be my trowth I kan not ben wel att ese in my hert , ner not xal ben
, tyl I here tydyngys hw +ge don . PASTON,I,230.063.1853

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te most part of +gowr stuff +tat was at Gressam is sold and +govyn
away . PASTON,I,230.063.1854

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Barow and his felaw spak to me in +te most $plesawnt wyse ,
PASTON,I,230.063.1855

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and me semyth be hem +tei wold fayn plese me . PASTON,I,230.063.1856

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei seyd +tei wold do me servyse and plesans , if it lay in here
powrys to don owth for me , save only in +tat +tat longyth to here
lordys ryt+g . PASTON,I,230.063.1857

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd to hem , as for seche servys as +tey hadde do to +gow and to me
I desyre nomore +tat +tei xuld do no+ter to +gow ner to me .
PASTON,I,230.063.1858

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei seyd I myt an had of hem at Gressam qhat I hadde desyryd of hem ,
and had as moche as I desyryd . PASTON,I,230.063.1859

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd nay , PASTON,I,230.063.1860

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if I myt+g an had my desyre I xuld no+ter a departid owth of +te place
nere from +te stuff +tat was +ter-in . PASTON,I,230.063.1861

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei seyd as for +te stuff , it was but esy . PASTON,I,230.063.1862

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd +ge wold not a +goven +te stuff +tat was in +te place qhan +tei
com jn not for a c li . PASTON,I,230.063.1863

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tei seyd +te stuff +tat +tei sey +tere was skars wurth xx li .
PASTON,I,230.063.1864

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +gowr moder and myn , sche faryth wel , blissid be God ,
PASTON,I,230.063.1865

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche had no tydyngys but gode +gett , blissid be God .
PASTON,I,230.063.1866

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissyd Trynyte` have +gou in his kepyng PASTON,I,230.063.1867

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +gou helt and gode spede in al +gowr materys .
PASTON,I,230.063.1868

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Sustede on +te Satyrday nexst after Seynt Valentynys day .
PASTON,I,230.063.1869

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here dare noman seyn a gode wurd for +gou in +tis cuntre` ,
PASTON,I,230.063.1870

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Godde amend it . PASTON,I,230.063.1871

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_063:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,230.063.1872

<Q_PAS_C_1449_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_064> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,230>

{ED:132._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1449,_28_FEBRUARY}

<P_I,231>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt wurchypful hosbond , I recommawnd me to +gou , desyryng hertyly to
heryn of +gowr wele-fare , be-seching +gou +tat +ge be not displesyd
+tow I be com fro +tat place +tat +ge left me in ;
PASTON,I,231.064.1873

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be my trowth +ter were browth me seche tydyngys be dyuerys personys
qhiche ben +gowre wele-willerys and myn +tat I durst no lengere abyd
there , of qhyche personys I xall late +gou have wetyng qhan +ge com
hom . PASTON,I,231.064.1874

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was done me to wete +tat dyuerys of +te Lord Moleynys men saydyn jf
+tei myt gete me +tey xuld stele me and kepe me wyth-jnne +te kastell ,
PASTON,I,231.064.1875

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tan +tey seyd +tei wold +tat +ge xuld feche me owth .
PASTON,I,231.064.1876

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
An +tei seydyn it xuld ben but a lytyll $hert-brennyng to +gou .
PASTON,I,231.064.1877

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after +tat I herd +tese tydyngys I kowd no rest have in myn hert
tyl I was here , PASTON,I,231.064.1878

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nere I durst nowt owt of +te place +tat I was jn tyll +tat I was redy
to ryden ; PASTON,I,231.064.1879

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nere +ter was non in +te place wist +tat I xul com +tens save +te
godewyf not an owre be-fore +tat I kam +tens . PASTON,I,231.064.1880

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I told here +tat I xuld com hedder to don maken seche gere as I
wold haue made for me and for +te childer , PASTON,I,231.064.1881

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd I sopposyd +tat I xuld be here a fowrtennythe or iij wekys .
PASTON,I,231.064.1882

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou +tat +te caws of my komyng away may ben kownsell tyl I
speke wyth +gou , PASTON,I,231.064.1883

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +tei +tat lete me haue warnyng +ter-of wold not for no good +tat it
were diskuryd . PASTON,I,231.064.1884

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spac wyth +gowr modyr as I kam hidderwardys , PASTON,I,231.064.1885

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche profyrd me , if +ge wold , +tat I xuld abydyn in +tis town .
PASTON,I,231.064.1886

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche wold wyth ryt+g a good will +tat we xul abyde in here place ,
PASTON,I,231.064.1887

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and delyueryn me seche gere as sche myt for-bere , to kepen wyth hwsold
tyl +ge myt+g ben purvayd of a place and stuff of +gowr owyn to kepe
wyth howsold . PASTON,I,231.064.1888

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou send me word be +te brynger of +tis how +ge wil +tat I be
demenyd . PASTON,I,231.064.1889

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wol ben ryt+g sory to dwel so nere Gressam as I dede tyl +te mater
were fully determynyd be-twix +te Lord Moleynis and +gou .
PASTON,I,231.064.1890

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Barow told me that +ter ware no better evydens in $Inglond +tan +te
Lord Moleynys hathe of +te maner of Gressam . PASTON,I,231.064.1891

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told hym I sopposyd +tat +tei were seche evydens as Willyam Hasard
seyd +tat +gowr were : PASTON,I,231.064.1892

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he seyd +te sellys of hem were not +gett kold . PASTON,I,231.064.1893

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd I sopposyd his lordys evydens were seche . PASTON,I,231.064.1894

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd I wost wele , as for +gowr evydens , +ter myt+g no man haue non
better +tan +ge have , PASTON,I,231.064.1895

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd +te selys of hem were to hundred +gere elder +tan he is .
PASTON,I,231.064.1896

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te seyd Barow sayd to me if he com to London qhil +ge were there he
wold drynk wyth +gou , for any angyr +tat was be-twyx +gow .
PASTON,I,231.064.1897

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He <P_I,232> seyd he dede but as a $servawnt , and as he was commawndyd
to don . PASTON,I,232.064.1898

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Purry xall tell +gou qhat langage was be-twyx Barow and me qhan I kam
fro $Walsyngham . PASTON,I,232.064.1899

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou hertyly , at +te reverens of God , be ware of +te Lord
Moleynys and his men , PASTON,I,232.064.1900

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+tow +tei speke neuer so fayr to +gou trost hem not ,
PASTON,I,232.064.1901

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ne ete not nere drynk wyth hem , PASTON,I,232.064.1902

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +tei ben so fals it is not for to trost in hem .
PASTON,I,232.064.1903

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I pray +gou be ware qhat +ge eten ar drynk wyth any othere
felaschep , PASTON,I,232.064.1904

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +te pepyll is ful on-trosty . PASTON,I,232.064.1905

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou hertylye +tat +ge wil vowche-save to send me word how +ge
don and how +ge speden in +gowr materis be +te brynger of this .
PASTON,I,232.064.1906

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I merveyl meche +tat +ge send me nomore tydyngys +tan +ge haue sent .
PASTON,I,232.064.1907

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rogere Foke of Sparham sent to me PASTON,I,232.064.1908

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seythe +tat he dare nott gon owt of his hows for be kawse of +te
sewte +tat Heydon and Wymdam haue a+gens hem , PASTON,I,232.064.1909

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is thrett +tat if he may be gette he xal be ladde to preson .
PASTON,I,232.064.1910

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Heydon sent Spendlove and o+ter to wayte qhere he were , and to arest
hym to +te kastell , PASTON,I,232.064.1911

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te forseyd Roger is so aferd +tat his drede makyth hym so seke
+tat but if he haue sokowr sone it is lyke to ben his dethe . Qhere-for
I pray +gou , and he bothyn , +tat +ge wil purvay a remedy for hym ,
+tat he may gon at large , PASTON,I,232.064.1912

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it hurtit bothen +gowr katel and hym . PASTON,I,232.064.1913

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowr closys and +gowr pastowr lythe all opyn be-kawse he may not gon
abrodde to don hem amendyn , PASTON,I,232.064.1914

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +gowr schep ar not lokyd at as +tey xuld ben PASTON,I,232.064.1915

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +ter is no schepeherd but Hodgis sonys , PASTON,I,232.064.1916

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for o+ter schepherd dare non abyd +ter ner com up-on +te comown
be-kause +tat Wichyngham men thretyn hem to bete if +tei comen on here
komon . PASTON,I,232.064.1917

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And but if +gowr bestys mown comown +ter jt xall ben grette hurt to hem
but if +te haue more pasture +tan +tei haue be-syd +tatt .
PASTON,I,232.064.1918

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Watkyn Schipdam recommawndyth hym to +gou , PASTON,I,232.064.1919

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayt +gou +tat +ge woll speke to Sere Jon Fastolf for +te harneys
+tat +ge hadden of hym , and tellyn hym how it is +tat som +ter-of is
gon , and speke to hym +tat +tei +tat arn bownd +ter-for nere +tei +tat
delyueryd it ben no hurt . PASTON,I,232.064.1920

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue +gove Purry a gown ; PASTON,I,232.064.1921

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gou take heed qhat it is PASTON,I,232.064.1922

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word if +ge wil +tat I purway all +gowr leuere`s of +te
same . PASTON,I,232.064.1923

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te pris of a +gerd +ter-of is xiij d. ob. , PASTON,I,232.064.1924

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so me semyt it is wele worth . PASTON,I,232.064.1925

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The parson of Sparrammys dowter and o+ter talkedyn largely ,
PASTON,I,232.064.1926

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seydyn +tat +ge haue hadde on schote PASTON,I,232.064.1927

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and but if +ge ben ware +ge xall haue more or Estern -
PASTON,I,232.064.1928

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+ge xall for-bere Sporyl and Sweynysthorp also but if +ge bere +gou
wele , er +ge haue do wyth +te mater of Gressam . PASTON,I,232.064.1929

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is told me as for Gressam +te Lord Moleynys xuld not cleym it now
no+ter be tayl nere be evydens , but be infefment of on of his
anseteris qhiche dyid sesynnyd , PASTON,I,232.064.1930

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in +te same wise it is seyd +tat Sweynysthorp xul be cleymyd .
PASTON,I,232.064.1931

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In qhat wyse Sporyl xuld ben cleymyd I wote not ; PASTON,I,232.064.1932

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but if +ter be any seche thing to-ward <P_I,233> I send +gou $word
here-of +tat +ge may taken hede the <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,233.064.1933

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Skipping seyd qhan he kam fro London to a man +tat he wend xuld
not a $diskuryd it +tat +t <em> ... </em> yke to for-gon +te maner of
Sporyll wyth-in ryt+g schort tym . PASTON,I,233.064.1934

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +te pleyntys in +te $hundred Purry <em> xall tell </em> +gou
qhat is don and of o+ter thingys more . PASTON,I,233.064.1935

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trynyte` haue +gou in his keping . PASTON,I,233.064.1936

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_064:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<em> Wretyn at </em> Norwyche on +te Fryday nexst after Puver
Weddenysday . PASTON,I,233.064.1937

<Q_PAS_C_1449_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_065> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,233>

{ED:133._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1449,_2_APRIL}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryt+g wurschipful mayster Jon Paston be +tis delyverid in
hast , dwelling in +te Innere Tempill . </font> PASTON,I,233.065.1938

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt+g wurschipful hosbond , I recommawnd me to +gou , praying +gou to
wete +tat my kosyn Clere dynyd wyth me +tis day , PASTON,I,233.065.1939

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche told me +tat Heydon was wyth here +gisterevyn late .
PASTON,I,233.065.1940

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he told here +tat he had a letter from +te Lord Moleynys ,
PASTON,I,233.065.1941

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schewyd here +te same letter , praying hym +tat he wold seyn to his
frendys and wele-willerrys in +tis contre` +tat he thankyth hem of here
godewill and for +tat +tei haue don for hym , and also praying Heydon
+tat he wold sey to Rychard Ernold of Crowmer +tat he was sory and evyl
payd +tat his men maden +te afray up-on hym , PASTON,I,233.065.1942

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyd it was not be his will +tat his men xuld make afray on
noman in +tis contre` wyth-owth ryt+g grett cawse ;
PASTON,I,233.065.1943

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for +tat was don to +gou , jf it myt+g ben prevyd +tat he had
don o+terwise to +gou +tan ryt+g wold as for +gowr mevabyl godis , +ge
xuld ben content so +tat +ge xuld haue cawse to kon hym +tank .
PASTON,I,233.065.1944

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he prayd Heydon in +te letter +tat it xuld ben reportid in +te
kontre` +tat he wold don so if he had don o+terwyse +tan he awth to don
. PASTON,I,233.065.1945

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The frere +tat cleymyth Oxned was in +tis town +gustyrday and +tis day
, PASTON,I,233.065.1946

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was lodgid att Beris ; PASTON,I,233.065.1947

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tis after-non he rod , PASTON,I,233.065.1948

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but qhedder I wote <P_I,234> not . PASTON,I,234.065.1949

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd pleynly in +tis town +tat he xal haue Oxnede , and +tat he hath
my lord of Suffolkys good lordschip and he wol ben his good lord in
+tat matere . PASTON,I,234.065.1950

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There was a persone warnyd my moder wyth-in +tis to days +tat sche xuld
ben ware , PASTON,I,234.065.1951

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +tei seyd pleynly sche was lyk to ben servyd as +ge were servyd at
Gressam wyth-in ryt+g schort tym . PASTON,I,234.065.1952

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also +te Lord Moleyns wrott in his forseyd letter +tat he wold mytyly
wyth his body and wyth his godis stand be all +to +tat had ben his
frendys and his wel-willerys in +te mater towching Gressam ,
PASTON,I,234.065.1953

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and preyd Heydon +tat he wold sey to +tem +tat +tei xuld not ben aferd
in non wyse , PASTON,I,234.065.1954

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +tat was don it xuld ben abedyn by . PASTON,I,234.065.1955

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My moder prayith +gou +tat +ge wil send my bro+ter Willyam to Kawmbrege
a nomynale and a bok of sofystre` of my bro+ter Emundys , +te qheche my
seyd bro+ter be-hestid my moder +te last tym he spak wyth her +tat he
xuld a sent to my bro+ter Willyam . PASTON,I,234.065.1956

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te blisseful Trinyte` haue +gou in his keping . PASTON,I,234.065.1957

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche in hast on +te Wedenysday nexst be-fore Palm Sonday
. PASTON,I,234.065.1958

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_065:M4:1449:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,234.065.1959

<Q_PAS_C_1449?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_066> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,235>

{ED:135._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1449,_9_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryt+g wurchepfull mayster Jon Paston in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,235.066.1960

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt wurschipfull hosbond , I recommand me to +gou , desyring hertyly to
here of +gowr wellfare , $praying +gou to wete +tat I haue spoken wyth
Strawngys wyf of +te mater +tat +ge spoken to me of .
PASTON,I,235.066.1961

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche seyth pleynly to me , be here feyth , +tat sche knew neuer non
seche ner never herd of non scheche ; PASTON,I,235.066.1962

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told to me in lyk wyse as sche had seyd to Jamys Gloys .
PASTON,I,235.066.1963

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And sche seyd to me if sche kowd jnquire of any o+ter +tat sche
+tingkyth xuld haue knowleche of any seche sche xuld wetyn of hem and
letyn me haue knowleche +ter-of . PASTON,I,235.066.1964

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And jf +ge soppose +tat any o+ter be jn +tis contre` +tat ye thyng xuld
haue knowleche of +tis forseyd mater , if ye wyll send me word there-of
I xall do my part there-in . PASTON,I,235.066.1965

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , I haue ben att Sweynysthorp and spoken <P_I,236> wyth Kokett ,
PASTON,I,236.066.1966

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth +tat he woll don lyche as +ge bad me +tat I xuld sey to
hym for to don . PASTON,I,236.066.1967

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I haue spokyn wyth +te sexteyn and seyd to hym as ye bad me that I
xuld don , PASTON,I,236.066.1968

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he axid me ryt feythfully hw ye sped jn +gowr materys .
PASTON,I,236.066.1969

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told him +tat +ge haddyn fayre be-hestys , PASTON,I,236.066.1970

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd I hopyd +tat +ge xuld don ryt+g well +ter-jn ;
PASTON,I,236.066.1971

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he supposyd +tat D. wold don for +gou ,
PASTON,I,236.066.1972

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he seyd he was no hasty laborere jn non mater .
PASTON,I,236.066.1973

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd be hys feyth he wost qhere a man was +tat laboryd to hym for a
mater ryth a long tym , and alwey he be-hestyd +tat he wold labore itt
effectualy , but qhyll he sewyd to hym he kowd never haue remedy of his
mater ; PASTON,I,236.066.1974

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than , qhan he +towth +tat he xuld no remedy haue to sew to hym ,
he spak wyth Fynys +tat is now Speker of +te Parlment ,
PASTON,I,236.066.1975

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayid hym +tat he wold don for hym jn his mater ,
PASTON,I,236.066.1976

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +gaf hym a reward , PASTON,I,236.066.1977

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyth-jnne ryth schort tym after his mater was sped .
PASTON,I,236.066.1978

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seyd sexteyn and o+ter folkys +tat ben yowre ryth wele willerys
haue kownselyd me +tat I xuld kownsell +gou to maken o+ter menys +tan
ye haue made to other folkys +tat wold spede yowr materys better +tan
they haue don +tatt ye haue spoken to +ter-of be-for this tym .
PASTON,I,236.066.1979

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sondery folkys haue seyd to me that they +tynk veryly but if +ge haue
my lord of Suffolkys godelorchyp qhyll +te werd is as itt is ye kan
neuer leven jn pese wyth-owth ye haue his godelordschep .
PASTON,I,236.066.1980

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfor I pray you wyth all myn herth +tat ye wyll don yowre part to
haue hys godelordschep and his love jn ese of all the materis that ye
haue to don , and jn esyng of myn hert also . PASTON,I,236.066.1981

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For be my trowth I am afferd ellys bothen of these $materys the qhyche
ye haue jn hand now , and of othere that ben not don to yett but if he
wyl don for +gou and be yowr godelord . PASTON,I,236.066.1982

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow hertylye send me word how +ge don and how ye speden jn
+gowr materys ; PASTON,I,236.066.1983

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you , as for seche thyngys as Jamys hath a byll of , +tat I
may haue hem as hastyly as +ge may , and +tat +ge wyll vowchesave to
bey a pese of blak bukram for to lyn wyth a gown for me .
PASTON,I,236.066.1984

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I xuld bey me a murrey gown to gon in this somer , and leyn in the
kolere the satyn +tat +ge +geve me for an hodde , PASTON,I,236.066.1985

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I kan gettyn non gode bokeram jn +tis town to lyn it wyth .
PASTON,I,236.066.1986

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trinyte` haue yow in his kepyng PASTON,I,236.066.1987

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +gou helth and good spede in all yowre materis .
PASTON,I,236.066.1988

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche on +te Fryday nexst after Crowchemesse Day .
PASTON,I,236.066.1989

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:28?
LETTER:PASTON_066:M4:1449?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,236.066.1990

<Q_PAS_C_1450_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_067> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,237>

{ED:136._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1450,_12_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryt+g worchypful maystyr Jon Paston be this delyveryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,237.067.1991

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryt+g worchipful hosbond , I recommawnd me to +gow , desyring hertyly
to here of +gowr well-fare , thankyng for +te letter +tat +ge sent to
me , praying +gow to wete +tat I haue sent Henry to Maltby +tis weke to
do seche thyngys as +ge $commawndyd in +gowr letter .
PASTON,I,237.067.1992

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as towching +te dyche a+gens the maner gate , +gowr tenawntys haue
nere made itt as +ge desyryd +tat it shuld ben made qhan +ge were +tere
, PASTON,I,237.067.1993

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is made up-on +te old dyche . PASTON,I,237.067.1994

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for mony , I cowd haue +ter at +tis tym butt xxj s. viij d .
PASTON,I,237.067.1995

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the flete , +te man is not in +tis contre +tat shuld make
itt . PASTON,I,237.067.1996

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$+Gowr tenawntys and o+ter men seyn +tat it shal ben als gode makyng
+ter-of after Estern as it shuld ben be-fore Estern .
PASTON,I,237.067.1997

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have spoke to Jon of Damme to do as +ge sent me word in +gowr letter
, PASTON,I,237.067.1998

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth he wol don his part as +gowr desyre is wyth all his hert .
PASTON,I,237.067.1999

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jamys Gloys was in +tat contre` sythyn he kom from London ,
PASTON,I,237.067.2000

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he spak wyth Henry Goneld ; PASTON,I,237.067.2001

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te seyd Henry told hym +tat he herd seyn +tat Partriche hath sent
a lettyr to +te lym-brennere byddyng hym +tat he shuld fell +te rede
att Gressam , PASTON,I,237.067.2002

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so it is fellyd and karyid to Mariottys plase att Bekkam .
PASTON,I,237.067.2003

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seyd Henry seyth how it is seyd in Gressam that Partryche sent
hom word +tat he shuld not com hom tyl he com wyth his lord , and +tat
he seyd shuld ben wyth-jnne short tym , and +tat he shuld ben lodgyd at
Jon Wynterys plase . PASTON,I,237.067.2004

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for Capron , he dwellyth styl in Gressam , PASTON,I,237.067.2005

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth , and o+ter +tat ben a+gens +gow , thow +ge entre in-to
+te manere +tat +ge shul nevyre haue it long in pesebyl wyse .
PASTON,I,237.067.2006

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wyllyam Butt , the whiche is wyth Sere Jon Hevenyngham , kom hom from
London +gesterday , PASTON,I,237.067.2007

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd pleynly to his mayster and to many othere folkys +tat the
Duke of Suffolk is pardonyd and hath his men a+gen waytyng up-on hym ,
and is ryt+g wel at ese and mery , and is in the Kyngys godegrase and
in +te gode conseyt of all +te lordys as well as ever he was .
PASTON,I,237.067.2008

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There ben many enmys a+gens +Germowth and Crowmere ,
PASTON,I,237.067.2009

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue don moche harm and taken many Englysch-men and put hem in
grett destresse and grettely rawnsommyd hem , PASTON,I,237.067.2010

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the seyd enmys ben so bolde that they <P_I,238> kom vp to +te lond
and pleyn hem on Caster sondys and in othere plases as homely as they
were Englysch-men . PASTON,I,238.067.2011

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Folkys ben ryt+g sore aferd +tat they wol don moche harm +tis somer but
if +ter be made ryt+g grett purvyans a+gens hem . PASTON,I,238.067.2012

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Othere tydyngys know I non att +tis tym . PASTON,I,238.067.2013

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blysseful Trinyte` haue +gow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,238.067.2014

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on Seynt Gregorys Day . PASTON,I,238.067.2015

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_067:M4:1450:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,238.067.2016

<Q_PAS_C_1451_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_068> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,238>

{ED:137._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1451,_3_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rith wurshepfull hosbond Jon Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,238.068.2017

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rith worchipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , preying you to wete
that there is a gret noyse in +tis town +tat my lord of Oxforth and
Yelverton and ye ben endytid in Kent for mayntenyng of +te
oyrdetermyner , PASTON,I,238.068.2018

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Jon Damme is endytyd +tere also of treson be-cawse +tat he dede
Heydon endytyn of treson for takyng down of +te quarter of the man .
PASTON,I,238.068.2019

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the pepyll +tat ben ayens Sere Thomas Todenham and Heydon ben sore
aferd be-cawse of +tis noyse and of o+ter langage that is had bo+te in
+tis town and in +te contre` +tat +tese seyd Todenham and Heydon shuld
ben as well at ese and haue as grett rewill as euer they hadde .
PASTON,I,238.068.2020

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jamys Gloys tellith me +tat he hath sent yow word of Heydonys hors ,
and of o+ter thyngys more , of whiche I was purposid to a sent yow word
of . PASTON,I,238.068.2021

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trinyte` have yow in kepyng . PASTON,I,238.068.2022

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwiche the Weddenysday next after Seynt Mathy .
PASTON,I,238.068.2023

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_068:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowris , M. P. PASTON,I,238.068.2024

<Q_PAS_C_1451_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_069> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,239>

{ED:138._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1451,_15_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To myn ryth worshipfull hosbond Jon Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,239.069.2025

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rith wurchipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , desiring hertily to
here of yowre welfare , preying yow to wete that Herry Halmannys wyf
sent to me word on Saturday last past that Prentys thretyth here
hosbond sore , and Jon Robynys , for seche thingys as Prentys seyth
+tat +tey haue don ayens hym . PASTON,I,239.069.2026

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyth he shall make hem so besy or he leve hem that he shall make
hem not wurth a peny , PASTON,I,239.069.2027

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they ben aferd +tat he woll hold hem connawnt if he have powyre
there-to . PASTON,I,239.069.2028

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd here +tat the Kyng shuld com in-to this contre` ,
PASTON,I,239.069.2029

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Ser Thomas Todenham and Heydon arn well cheryshid wyth hym ;
PASTON,I,239.069.2030

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also it is seyd they shall have as grett rewill in +tis contre` as
evyre they hadde , PASTON,I,239.069.2031

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and many more folkys arn sory +terfore than mery .
PASTON,I,239.069.2032

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser Thomas Todenhamys men and Heydonys sowyn this sedde all abowte +te
contre` , +tat here maysteris shull cum hom in hast in here prosperite`
and be als well att ese as euer they were . PASTON,I,239.069.2033

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for that ye desyryd +tat I shuld enquyre where any stuff is of
yowrys , I wot not how to don +ter-wyth , PASTON,I,239.069.2034

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if on were aspyid +tat hath of yowr stuff , and we had it from hym
, o+ter +tat have more +ter-of wold ben ware be hym and avoyd seche
stuff as they have of yowris . PASTON,I,239.069.2035

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose Jon Osbern shall tell yow whan ye com hom a gode meen to wete
where meche +terof is becom . PASTON,I,239.069.2036

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jamys Gloys is ayen to Gressam , PASTON,I,239.069.2037

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose Jon Damme shall tell yow what he hath don there .
PASTON,I,239.069.2038

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowre tenawntys wold fayn +tat summe mene of yowris shuld abyde amongis
hem , PASTON,I,239.069.2039

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they ben in gred diswyre what they may do , PASTON,I,239.069.2040

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the langage is so grett on the to+ter party that it makyth +te
tenawntys sore afferd that ye shuld not regoyse itt .
PASTON,I,239.069.2041

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send to yow a letter be Colynys of Frawnceys Costard , what dedis he
woll don . PASTON,I,239.069.2042

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was told me also that the Lord Molyns was lyke to have a day ayens
yow att Thetford at the next assyse . PASTON,I,239.069.2043

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On +tat louyth yow ryth well told me how it was told hym so ,
PASTON,I,239.069.2044

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and warnyd me +terof in secrete wyse . PASTON,I,239.069.2045

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Itt is gode to ben ware of there falsed . PASTON,I,239.069.2046

<P_I,240>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye woll send me word in hast if ye woll have red to
yowr levery as ye were avysid , and if ye woll not , &c .
PASTON,I,240.069.2047

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I pray yow +tat ye woll do bey ij gode hattis for yowr sonys ,
PASTON,I,240.069.2048

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I can none getyn in +tis town . PASTON,I,240.069.2049

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
More tydyngys can I not send yow yett . PASTON,I,240.069.2050

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trinyte` have yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,240.069.2051

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwiche on +te fyrst Monday of Lent . PASTON,I,240.069.2052

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_069:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,240.069.2053

<Q_PAS_C_1451_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_070> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,240>

{ED:139._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1451,_30_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurchepfull husbond John Paston , beyng in the
Innere Tempill , be this deliuered in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,240.070.2054

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurchepfull husbond , I recomaund me to you , prayng you to wete
that myn vnkyll Phylyp Berney was at Lynne this last weke .
PASTON,I,240.070.2055

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he was at jnne at the balyffes hows of Lynne ,
PASTON,I,240.070.2056

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Partrych came in-to the same place whill myn vnkyll was there .
PASTON,I,240.070.2057

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the seid Partrych was wele aqueyntyd with the balyffe ,
PASTON,I,240.070.2058

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the balyffe told hym that he sent a letter to the Lord Molyns , and
that the Lord Molyns had sent hym a-nothere letter letyng him wete that
he purposyd hym to be at Lynne thes weke . PASTON,I,240.070.2059

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than Partrych seid that he had word that thes seid lord purposyd hym to
be there at that tyme , PASTON,I,240.070.2060

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he said summe men supposyd that he wuld not come here ;
PASTON,I,240.070.2061

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the balyffe seid that he was right glad that he shuld come in-to
this contre` . PASTON,I,240.070.2062

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On of myn vnkyll men herd all this langage PASTON,I,240.070.2063

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told it myn vnkill . PASTON,I,240.070.2064

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The baly nere Partrych knewe not at that tyme what myn vnkyll was to vs
ward . PASTON,I,240.070.2065

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , I purposyd me to haue sent to Stapylton as ye sent me word be
James Gresham , PASTON,I,240.070.2066

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is told me that he is to London . PASTON,I,240.070.2067

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it is noysed a-bowte Gresham and all that contre` that the Lord
Molyns shuld be there in hast . PASTON,I,240.070.2068

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Gonnore had right gret langage , PASTON,I,240.070.2069

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he trostyd that the word shall turne sumwhat after there entent .
PASTON,I,240.070.2070

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Othre tydynges haue we non but that <P_I,241> Tudenham and Heydon shuld
haue a-geyn the rewle in this contre` assmych as euer thei had , or
more . PASTON,I,241.070.2071

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Trynyte` haue you in kepyng . PASTON,I,241.070.2072

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwhich vn the Tuesday next be-fore Mydlente Sonday .
PASTON,I,241.070.2073

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_070:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowre M. P. PASTON,I,241.070.2074

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_071> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,241>

{ED:140._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451,_3_JUNE}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rygth worshipfull hosbond John Paston be +tis delyverid in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,241.071.2075

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rygth wurchipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , desyring hertyly
to here of yowr welfare , preying yow to wete that itt was told me +tis
weke that +ter is a fayre plase to sell in Seynt Laveransis parysch ,
and stant nere the chirche and by +te watere syde , +te whiche place
Toppis hath to sell . PASTON,I,241.071.2076

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pyte , a lystere , bowgth itt of Toppis , PASTON,I,241.071.2077

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now for defawt of payment Toppis hath enterid ayen +ter-inne
PASTON,I,241.071.2078

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shall selle itt in hast , as it is told me . PASTON,I,241.071.2079

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The seyd lystere dwellyth +ter-inne at +tis tym , PASTON,I,241.071.2080

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he shall owte , PASTON,I,241.071.2081

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is hald rygth a pore man . PASTON,I,241.071.2082

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose if ye lyke to bye itt when ye com hom ye shall mou have itt
of Toppis als gode chepe or bettere than ano+ter shuld .
PASTON,I,241.071.2083

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Als for tydyngys , we have none gode in +tis contre` ;
PASTON,I,241.071.2084

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God send us gode . PASTON,I,241.071.2085

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Itt was told me that Rychard Sowthwell hath enterid in +te manere of
Hale , +te whiche is +te Lady Boysys , and kepyth itt wyth strength
wyth seche anothere felashep as hath be att Brayston , and wastyth and
dispoylyth all +tat +ter is . PASTON,I,241.071.2086

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te Lady Boys , as it is told me , is to London to conpleyn to +te
Kyng and to +te lordys there-of . PASTON,I,241.071.2087

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Itt semyth it was not for nowgth +tat he held wyth Charlys and his
felashep . PASTON,I,241.071.2088

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow +tat ye wol vowchesawf to speke to Jamys Gloys to bye +te
vngwentum album +tat I spake to hym fore , and +tat ye woll remembre
yowr <P_I,242> fayre dowgteris gyrdyl . PASTON,I,242.071.2089

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope ye shull be at hom so sone that I woll do wryte nomore tydyngys
to yow . PASTON,I,242.071.2090

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssid Trinyte` have yow in his keping PASTON,I,242.071.2091

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow gode spede in all +tat ye woll spede well inne .
PASTON,I,242.071.2092

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on +te Ascencion Day . PASTON,I,242.071.2093

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_071:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowris , M. P. PASTON,I,242.071.2094

<Q_PAS_C_1451_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_072> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,242>

{ED:141._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1451,_1_JULY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rygth worshypfull hosbond Jon Paston be this delyveryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,242.072.2095

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rygth worchypfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , desyryng hertyly
to here of yowre wellfare , preying yow to wete that I have spoke wyth
my Lady Felbrygg of that ye bad me speke to here of .
PASTON,I,242.072.2096

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she seyd pleynly to me that she wold not ne nevyr was avysyd no+ter
to lete +te Lord Moleyns ne non o+ter to have ther intentys as for +tat
mater whyll +tat she levyth . PASTON,I,242.072.2097

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she was rygth evyll payd wyth Sawtre that he shuld reporte as itt
was told yow +tat he shuld have reportyd , PASTON,I,242.072.2098

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she made rygth moche of yow PASTON,I,242.072.2099

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat she wold nowgth +tat no $servawnte of herys shuld reporte
no thyng +tat shuld be ayens yow o+terwyse +tan she wolld +tat yowr
servawntys shud do or seyn ayens here . PASTON,I,242.072.2100

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And jf o+ter yowr servawntys dede ayens here , or any of here ayens yow
, she wold +tat itt shuld be reformyd be-twyx yow and here , and +tat
ye mygth ben all on , PASTON,I,242.072.2101

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she seyd in good feyth she desyryth yowr frendshep .
PASTON,I,242.072.2102

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te report of Sawtre , she seyd she supposyd +tat he wold
nowgth reporte so ; PASTON,I,242.072.2103

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if she mygth know +tat he dede she wold blame hym +ter-fore .
PASTON,I,242.072.2104

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told here +tat itt was told me syth +tat ye reden , and +tat itt
grevyd me more +tat +te seyd Sawtre shuld reporte as he dede +tan itt
had be reportyd of ano+ter , in als moche as I had awgth <P_I,243> hym
goodwyll before . PASTON,I,243.072.2105

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she prayid me +tat I shud not beleve seche reportys tyll I knew the
trowth . PASTON,I,243.072.2106

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was at Toppys att dynere on Seynt Peterys Day . PASTON,I,243.072.2107

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There my Lady Felbrygg and o+ter jantyll-women desyryd to have hadde
yow there ; PASTON,I,243.072.2108

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they seyd they shuld all a be +te meryere if ye hadde ben there .
PASTON,I,243.072.2109

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosyn Toppys hath moche care tyll she here goode tydyngys of here
bro+teris mater . PASTON,I,243.072.2110

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche told me +tat +ter shuld kepte a day on Monday next komyng be-twyx
here bro+ter and Sere Andrew Hugard and Wymdham . PASTON,I,243.072.2111

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow send me word how they spede and how ye spede in yowre owyn
materys also . PASTON,I,243.072.2112

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , I pray yow hertyley that ye woll send me a potte wyth triacle in
hast , PASTON,I,243.072.2113

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I have ben rygth evyll att ese , and yowr dowghtere bo+te , syth
+tat ye yeden hens . PASTON,I,243.072.2114

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on of +te tallest younge men of +tis parysch lyth syke
PASTON,I,243.072.2115

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath a grette myrre ; PASTON,I,243.072.2116

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
how he shall do God knowyth . PASTON,I,243.072.2117

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have sent myn vnkyll Berney the potte wyth triacle +tat ye dede bey
for hym . PASTON,I,243.072.2118

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn awnte recommawndyth here to yow PASTON,I,243.072.2119

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayith yow to do fore here as the byll makyth mencion of that I
send yow wyth this letter , and as ye thynk best for to do +ter-inne .
PASTON,I,243.072.2120

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser Herry Inglose is passyd to God this nygth , hoys sowle God asoyll ,
PASTON,I,243.072.2121

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and was caryid for+t this day at ix of +te clok to Seynt Fey+tis ,
PASTON,I,243.072.2122

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there shall be beryid . PASTON,I,243.072.2123

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye desyer to bey any of hys stuff I pray you send me word +ter-of in
hast , PASTON,I,243.072.2124

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall speke to Robert Inglose and to Wychyngham +ter-of .
PASTON,I,243.072.2125

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose +tei ben executorys . PASTON,I,243.072.2126

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssyd Trinyte` have you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,243.072.2127

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche in hast on +te Thursday next after Seynt Peter .
PASTON,I,243.072.2128

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,243.072.2129

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_072:M4:1451:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow trost nott to +te sheryve for no fayre langage .
PASTON,I,243.072.2130

<Q_PAS_C_1451?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_073> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,243>

{ED:142._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1451,_6_JULY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rygth wurchipfful hosbond John Paston be +tis delyverid in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,243.073.2131

<P_I,244>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worshipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , desyryng hertyly to
here of yowr welfare , praying yow +tat ye woll send me word in hast
how ye be agreid wyth Wychyngham and Inglose for +tat mater that ye
spake to me of at yowr departyng ; PASTON,I,244.073.2132

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if I shuld purvey o+ter wood or hey it shuld be bowgth best chepe
be-twyx +tis and Seynt Margretys masse , as itt is told me .
PASTON,I,244.073.2133

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Applyard , he com not yett to this town syn he com from London .
PASTON,I,244.073.2134

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have sent to Ser Bryse to lete me have knowleche when he comyth to
town , PASTON,I,244.073.2135

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath promysid +tat I shall have knowleche ;
PASTON,I,244.073.2136

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and when he comyth I shall do yowr commawndement .
PASTON,I,244.073.2137

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My moder bad me send yow word +tat Waron Herman hath dayly fyshid hyre
watere all +tis yer , PASTON,I,244.073.2138

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +terfor she prayith yow to do +ter-for whill ye be att London as ye
thynk best . PASTON,I,244.073.2139

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Chyrche of Byrlyngham was take and browte to +te castell yisterday be
+te Beshopys men , PASTON,I,244.073.2140

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all his godys ben seysid for +tat he owyth to +te Boshop .
PASTON,I,244.073.2141

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +te seid Chirche seyth as for +tat he hath seyd of hem +tat he hath
appelyd before +tis tym , he woll awow itt and abyd +terby ;
PASTON,I,244.073.2142

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyth +tat he woll appele on +tat hath more nobelys +tan they have
all +tat he hath spoke of yett , PASTON,I,244.073.2143

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat shall avayll +te Kyng mor +tan +tey have all +tat he hath
speke of yett ; PASTON,I,244.073.2144

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but whatt he is he woll not name tyll he know more .
PASTON,I,244.073.2145

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trow but if +ter be the gretter labowr made ayens hym he is lyke to
have grett favowr of hem +tat have be his supportorys .
PASTON,I,244.073.2146

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Men thenk +tat have spoke wyth hym +tat he hopyth to haue good helpe .
PASTON,I,244.073.2147

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God that +te trowth mote be knowyn . PASTON,I,244.073.2148

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye woll vowchesaff to send me an o+ter sugowr loff ,
for my old is do . And also +tat ye well do make a gyrdill for yowr
dowgtere , for she hath nede +ter-of . PASTON,I,244.073.2149

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssid Trinyte` have yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,244.073.2150

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche in hast on +te Tewysday next before Seynt Thomas Day
. PASTON,I,244.073.2151

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,244.073.2152

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:30?
LETTER:PASTON_073:M4:1451?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Paper is deynty . PASTON,I,244.073.2153

<Q_PAS_C_1452?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_074> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,245>

{ED:143._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1452,_21_APRIL}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurchepfull howsbond , I recomand me to yow , prayng yow to wete
that the parson of Oxened told me that Wymdham told hym that
Sweynnysthorp is hold of the Kyng be the thred part or the fourt part
of a knyt fye ; PASTON,I,245.074.2154

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ho so euer had the maner of Sweynsthorp , he shuld fynde an armyd
man in tyme of werre in the Castell of Norwhic xl days to his owyn cost
, PASTON,I,245.074.2155

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that ye shuld pay xxx s. to the Kyng yerly owth of the seyd maner ;
PASTON,I,245.074.2156

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is fond also that your fader shuld a died seysyd , and that ye
shuld a entyrryd ther-in as heyre after your fader dysseys and that ye
shuld be now vp-on the age of xxx wynter . PASTON,I,245.074.2157

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It semyth be that he seyd that he is preuy to the seyd matere .
PASTON,I,245.074.2158

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also the seyd Wymdham seyd to the seyd parson that the Kyng hath yovyn
it to the Provost of Eton . PASTON,I,245.074.2159

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose that it myth not be graunted so hastyly after that it was
seysyd . PASTON,I,245.074.2160

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd here that it is lyke that there shall be mad more affrays at
Lynne wyth-in short tyme . PASTON,I,245.074.2161

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I herd sey that Bosvyle cam in-to Lynne wythin this vij ny+gt and mad
affray vp-on a man of Lynne and yaffe hym a buffette , and that shall
turne to non esse or after . PASTON,I,245.074.2162

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In gode feyth I here no man sey but that Bosvyle is right a mysgouernyd
yong man , PASTON,I,245.074.2163

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath many wordes myth wele be left . PASTON,I,245.074.2164

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose but if his mayster voyd hym he shall repente hym be-cause of
his $mysgouernauns wyth-in short tyme . PASTON,I,245.074.2165

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His mayster hath many moo elmyes than he shuld haue be-cause of his
mysgouernauns . PASTON,I,245.074.2166

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold fayn that ye myth conceyle hym that he myth a-voyd hym assone as
he myth wyth his wurchep , PASTON,I,245.074.2167

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he shall ell repent hym . PASTON,I,245.074.2168

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Trinite` haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,245.074.2169

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Writen at Norwhic the Friday next a-fore Seynt George .
PASTON,I,245.074.2170

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:31?
LETTER:PASTON_074:M4:1452?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowres , M. Paston PASTON,I,245.074.2171

<Q_PAS_C_1453?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_075> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,247>

{ED:145._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PERHAPS_1453,_30_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurshipfull hosbond John Paston be +tis delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,247.075.2172

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right worshippffull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , praying yow to
wete +tat I spak yistirday wyth my sustere , PASTON,I,247.075.2173

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she told me +tat she was sory +tat she myght not speke wyth yow or
ye yede . PASTON,I,247.075.2174

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she desyrith , if itt pleased yow , +tat ye shuld yeve +te
jantylman +tat ye know of seche langage as he myght fele by yow +tat ye
wull be wele willyng to +te mater +tat ye know of ;
PASTON,I,247.075.2175

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she told me +tat he hath seyd before +tis tym +tat he conseyvid
+tat ye haue sett but lytil +ter-by . Wherefore she prayth yow +tat ye
woll be here gode brothere , and +tat ye myght haue a full answere at
+tis tym wheddere it shall be ya or nay . PASTON,I,247.075.2176

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For here modere hath seyd to here syth +tat <P_I,248> ye redyn hens
+tat she hath no fantesy +ter-inne , but +tat it shall com to a jape ;
PASTON,I,248.075.2177

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyth to here +tat +ter is gode crafte in daubyng ,
PASTON,I,248.075.2178

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath seche langage to here +tat she thynkyth right strange and so
+tat she is right wery +ter-of . Wherefore she desyrith +te rathere to
haue a full conclusyon +ter-inne . PASTON,I,248.075.2179

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She seyth here full trost is in yow , PASTON,I,248.075.2180

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as ye do +ter-inne she woll agre` here +ter-to .
PASTON,I,248.075.2181

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mayster Braklee was here yisterday to haue spoke wyth yow .
PASTON,I,248.075.2182

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spak wyth hym , PASTON,I,248.075.2183

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wold not tell me what his erond was . PASTON,I,248.075.2184

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd here +tat +te cescions shall be at Thetford on Saturday next
komyng , PASTON,I,248.075.2185

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there shall be my lord of Norffolk and othere wyth grette pupill ,
as it is seyd . PASTON,I,248.075.2186

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
O+ter tydyngys haue we none yett . PASTON,I,248.075.2187

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissefull Trynyte` haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,248.075.2188

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on +te Tewysday next before Candelmesse .
PASTON,I,248.075.2189

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye woll vowchesawf to remembre to purvey a thing for my
nekke , and to do make my gyrdill . PASTON,I,248.075.2190

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowris , M. P. PASTON,I,248.075.2191

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosyn Crane recommawndyth here to yow PASTON,I,248.075.2192

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayith yow to remembre her mater , &c. , PASTON,I,248.075.2193

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_075:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she may not slepe on nygtys for hym . PASTON,I,248.075.2194

<Q_PAS_C_1453_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_076> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,248>

{ED:146._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1453,_20_APRIL}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurshipfull maystere John Paston be +tis delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,248.076.2195

<P_I,249>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurshippfull hosbond , I recommand me to yow , praying yow to
wete that +te man of Knapton +tat owyth yow mony sent me this weke
xxxix s. viij d. ; PASTON,I,249.076.2196

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for +te remenant of +te mony , he hath promysid to bring itt at
Wytsontyd . PASTON,I,249.076.2197

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te prest , Howardys sone , he yede to Canbryge +te last
weke PASTON,I,249.076.2198

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he shall nomore come hom tyll itt be mydsomer ,
PASTON,I,249.076.2199

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore I myght not do yowr erunde . PASTON,I,249.076.2200

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for tydyngys , +te Quene come in-to +tis town on Tewysday last past
after none PASTON,I,249.076.2201

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and abode here tyll itt was Thursday iij after none ,
PASTON,I,249.076.2202

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she sent after my cosyn Elysabeth Clere be Sharynborn to come to
here . PASTON,I,249.076.2203

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she durst not dysabey here commandment , PASTON,I,249.076.2204

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and come to here . PASTON,I,249.076.2205

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And when she come in +te Quenys presens +te Quene made ryght meche of
here , PASTON,I,249.076.2206

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyrid here to have an hosbond , +te which ye shall know of
here-after ; PASTON,I,249.076.2207

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as for that , he is non nerrere than he was before .
PASTON,I,249.076.2208

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Quene was right well pleasid wyth here answere ,
PASTON,I,249.076.2209

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and reportyht of here in +te best wyse , PASTON,I,249.076.2210

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyth be here trowth she sey no jantylwomman syn she come into
Norffolk +tat she lykyth better +tan she doth here .
PASTON,I,249.076.2211

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Blake , +te bayle` of Swaffham , was here wyth +te Kyngys bro+ter ,
PASTON,I,249.076.2212

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he come to me wenyng +tat ye had be at hom , PASTON,I,249.076.2213

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat +te Kyngys bro+ter desyrid hym +tat he shuld pray yow in
his name to come to hym , PASTON,I,249.076.2214

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he wold right fayn that ye had come to hym if ye had be at hom .
PASTON,I,249.076.2215

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he told me +tat <P_I,250> he wost wele +tat he shuld send for yow
when he come to London , bo+te-1 for Cossey and othere thyngys .
PASTON,I,250.076.2216

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye woll do yowr cost on me ayens Witsontyd , +tat I may
haue somme thyng for my nekke . PASTON,I,250.076.2217

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When +te Quene was here I borowd my cosyn Elysabet Cleris devys ,
PASTON,I,250.076.2218

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I durst not for shame go wyth my bedys among so many fresch
jantylwomman as here were at +tat tym . PASTON,I,250.076.2219

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trinyte` have yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,250.076.2220

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_076:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwych on +te Fryday next before Seynt George . Be yowrys ,
M. Paston PASTON,I,250.076.2221

<Q_PAS_C_1453_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_077> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,250>

{ED:147._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1453,_6_JULY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ritht wurchipfull mayster John Paston be +tis delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,250.077.2222

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rytht worchipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , praying yow to
wete +tat I haue spoke wyth Newman for his plase ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2223

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am thorow wyth hym +terfore , PASTON,I,250.077.2224

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wold not lete it in nowyse lesse than v marc .
PASTON,I,250.077.2225

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told hym +tat sekyrly ye shuld not know but +tat I hyrid it of hym
for iij li . PASTON,I,250.077.2226

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd as for +te noble I shuld $pay $it {TEXT:payt} of myn owyn purse
, +tat ye shuld no knowlech haue +ter-of . PASTON,I,250.077.2227

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tis day I haue had jnne ij cartfull of hey , PASTON,I,250.077.2228

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yowr stabyl shall be made I hope +tis next weke .
PASTON,I,250.077.2229

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I kowd not gette no grawnt of hym to haue +te warehows .
PASTON,I,250.077.2230

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyth if he may in anywyse forbere itt her-after ye shall haue itt ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2231

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wull not grawnt itt in no $connawnt . PASTON,I,250.077.2232

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hath grawntyd me +te hows be-twyx +te vowte and +te warehows ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2233

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat he seyd he grawntyd not yow . PASTON,I,250.077.2234

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te chamer +tat ye assygnyd to myn vnkyl , God hath purveyd
for hym as hys will is : PASTON,I,250.077.2235

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he passyd to God on Monday last past at xj of +te clok before none ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2236

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Ser John $Hevenyngham passyd to God on Tewysday last past ; hois
sowlys both God assoyle . PASTON,I,250.077.2237

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
His sekenesse toke hym on Tewysday at ix of +te clok before none ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2238

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be too after none he was dedd . PASTON,I,250.077.2239

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue be-gonne yowr jnventare` +tat shuld haue be made or +tis tym if
I had ben well at ease . PASTON,I,250.077.2240

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope to make an ende +ter-of , and of o+ter thyngys bo+te , +tis next
weke , and ben in +tat o+ter place if God send me helth .
PASTON,I,250.077.2241

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must do purvey for meche stuff or I come there ,
PASTON,I,250.077.2242

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +ter is no+ter bordys ne o+ter stuff +tat must nedys be had or we
come there . PASTON,I,250.077.2243

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Richard hath gadderid <P_I,251> butt lytill mony syth he come from
yow . PASTON,I,251.077.2244

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent John Norwod +tis day to Gresham , $Besingham , and Matelask
to gete als meche mony as he may . PASTON,I,251.077.2245

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trinyte` haue yow in his keping . PASTON,I,251.077.2246

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwych on +te vtas day of Peter and Powll .
PASTON,I,251.077.2247

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32
LETTER:PASTON_077:M4:1453:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,251.077.2248

<Q_PAS_C_1453?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_078> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,251>

{ED:148._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PERHAPS_1453,_15_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurchipfull hosbond John Paston be +tis delyverid in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,251.078.2249

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurchipfull hosbond , I recommawnd me to yow , beseching yow that
ye be not displeasid wyth me thow my symplenesse cawsed yow for to be
displeasid wyth me . PASTON,I,251.078.2250

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be my trowth it is not my will no+ter to do ne sey that shuld cawse yow
for to be displeasid , PASTON,I,251.078.2251

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if I haue do I am sory +ter-of PASTON,I,251.078.2252

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will amend itt ; wherefore I beseche yow to forgeve me and +tat ye
bere none hevynesse in yowr hert ayens me , PASTON,I,251.078.2253

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for yowr displeasans shuld be to hevy to me to indure wyth .
PASTON,I,251.078.2254

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send yow the roll that ye sent fore , in-selyd , be +te brynger
here-of ; PASTON,I,251.078.2255

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it was fownd in yowr trussing cofore . PASTON,I,251.078.2256

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for hering , I haue bowt an horslode for iiij s. vjd. ;
PASTON,I,251.078.2257

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can gett none ell yett . PASTON,I,251.078.2258

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for bevere , +ter is promysid me somme , PASTON,I,251.078.2259

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I myt not gete it yett . PASTON,I,251.078.2260

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent to Jone Petche to haue an answere for +te wyndowis ,
PASTON,I,251.078.2261

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she myt not come to me , PASTON,I,251.078.2262

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she sent me word that she had spoke +ter-of to Thomas $Ingham .
PASTON,I,251.078.2263

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he seyd +tat he shuld speke wyth yow hymself PASTON,I,251.078.2264

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he shuld <P_I,252> accord wyth yow wel jnow , PASTON,I,252.078.2265

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd to her it was not her part to desyr of hym to stop +te lytys .
PASTON,I,252.078.2266

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also he seyd itt was not his parte to do itt , be-cawse +te place
is his but for yeris . PASTON,I,252.078.2267

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for all o+ter erondys that ye haue commandid for to be do , +tei
shall be do als sone as +tei may be do . PASTON,I,252.078.2268

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trynyte` haue yow in his keping . PASTON,I,252.078.2269

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on +te Monday next after Seynt Edward .
PASTON,I,252.078.2270

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_078:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowris , M. P. PASTON,I,252.078.2271

<Q_PAS_C_1453?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_079> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,252>

{ED:149._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1453,_14_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurshipfull hosbond John Paston be this delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,252.079.2272

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right worchipfull hosbond , I recomand me to yow , praying yow to wete
that I have receyvid the mony that Maystere Brakle` had of yow , wherof
he hath ageyn v marc. uppon pledgis of the too basonys +tat ye had of
hym tyll ye come hom . PASTON,I,252.079.2273

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for cloth for my gowne , I can non gete in this town better than
that is +tat I send yow an exsample of , whiche me thynkyth to symple
bothe of colowr and of cloth ; wherfore I pray yow +tat ye woll
vouchesauf to do bey for me iij yerdys and j quarter of seche as it
pleasith yow +tat I shuld have , and what colowr +tat pleaset yow ,
PASTON,I,252.079.2274

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in gode feyth I haue do sowte all the draperys shopis in this town
PASTON,I,252.079.2275

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and here is right febill cheys . PASTON,I,252.079.2276

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I pray yow +tat ye woll do bey a loff of gode sugowr and di. j li.
of holl synamun , PASTON,I,252.079.2277

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +ter is non gode in this town . PASTON,I,252.079.2278

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for mony , +ter is non of yowr tenantys ne fermorys bryngyth non
as yett . PASTON,I,252.079.2279

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for tydyngys in this contre` , Herry Ingloses men have slayn ij men
of Tonsted on Thursday last past , as it is seyd ,
PASTON,I,252.079.2280

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all +tat contre` is sore trobelid +terwith ; PASTON,I,252.079.2281

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he had abedyn at hom he had be lyke to have be fechid owte of
his owyn hows , PASTON,I,252.079.2282

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the peple +ter-abowgth is sore mevod with hym .
PASTON,I,252.079.2283

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Saterday last past he come ryding thorow this town toward
$Framyngham , PASTON,I,252.079.2284

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he had abedyn in this town he shuld haue ben arestyd ;
PASTON,I,252.079.2285

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for men of Tonsted and of the contre` pusewid after hym in-to +tis town
PASTON,I,252.079.2286

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and made a grett noyse of hym PASTON,I,252.079.2287

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and required +te mayre and sheryves <P_I,253> that he ne his men shuld
not pas the town but that they shuld do as it longed to here parte to
do , PASTON,I,253.079.2288

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told hem the cause why . PASTON,I,253.079.2289

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as it is seyd , the sergeantys were fals PASTON,I,253.079.2290

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete hym have knowleche +ter-of , PASTON,I,253.079.2291

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hythid hym hens in hast , &c . PASTON,I,253.079.2292

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssyd Trynyte` have yow in his keping . PASTON,I,253.079.2293

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:32?
LETTER:PASTON_079:M4:1453?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wreten att Norwyche on the Weddenesday next aftere Seynt Martyn . Be
yowrys , M. P. PASTON,I,253.079.2294

<Q_PAS_C_1454?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_080> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,253>

{ED:150._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PERHAPS_1454,_29_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right worchippfull hosbond John Paston be thys delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,253.080.2295

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right worchipfull hosbond , I recomand me to yow , desyring to here of
your welfare , praying yow to wete that Ser Thomas Howes hath purveyd
iiij dormantys for the drawte chamer and the malthouse and +te browern
, wherof he hath bought iij ; PASTON,I,253.080.2296

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the forte , +tat shall be the lengest and grettest of all , he
shall haue from Heylesdon , whiche he seyth my mayster Fastolf shall
geue me be-cause my chamer shal be made +ter-wyth .
PASTON,I,253.080.2297

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +te leying of the seyd dormantys , they shall be leyd this next
weke be-cause of the malthous ; PASTON,I,253.080.2298

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for the remenant , I trow it shall abyde tyll ye come hom
be-cause I can nother be purveyd of joystys ne of bord not yette .
PASTON,I,253.080.2299

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue take the mesure in the draute chamer +ter as ye wold your
coforys and your cowntewery shuld be sette for the whyle ,
PASTON,I,253.080.2300

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter is no space besyde the bedd , thow the bed were remevyd to the
dore , for to sette bothe your bord and your koforys there and to haue
space to go and sitte be syde . Wherfore I haue purveyd that ye shall
haue the same drawte chamer that ye had befor , there as ye shall ly to
yourself ; PASTON,I,253.080.2301

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whan your gerre is remeved owte of your lytil hous the dore shall
be lokkyd and youre baggys leyd in on of the grete koforis so +tat they
shall be sauff , I trost . PASTON,I,253.080.2302

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Charles and John Dow haue feched hom +te chyld from Rokelond
Toftes , PASTON,I,253.080.2303

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is a praty boy ; PASTON,I,253.080.2304

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is told me +tat Wyll is att Blyklyng wyth <P_I,254> a pore man
of +te town . PASTON,I,254.080.2305

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A yonge woman that was somtyme wyth Burton of this town sent me word
+ter-of . PASTON,I,254.080.2306

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow send me word if ye woll +tat any thyng +tat ye woll be do to
hym or ye come hom . PASTON,I,254.080.2307

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Charles sendyth yow word +tat Wylles hath be at hym here and
offerid hym to make hym astate in all thyngys according to there
in-denture , PASTON,I,254.080.2308

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he do the contrary ye shall sone haue word .
PASTON,I,254.080.2309

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modere prayith yow for to remembre my suster , and to do your parte
feythfully or ye come hom to help to gette here a gode mariage .
PASTON,I,254.080.2310

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It semyth be my moderys langage +tat she wold neuer so fayn to haue be
delyueryd of her as she woll now . PASTON,I,254.080.2311

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was told here that Knyvet the heyer is for to mary ;
PASTON,I,254.080.2312

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bothe his wyff and childer be dede , as it was told here , wherfor she
wold +tat ye shuld inquyre whedder it be so or no , and what hys
lyvelode is , and if ye thynke +tat it be for to do to lete hym be
spoke wyth +ter-of . PASTON,I,254.080.2313

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye be not strange of wryting of letterys to me betwix
+tis and +tat ye come hom ; PASTON,I,254.080.2314

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if I myght I wold haue euery day on from yow . PASTON,I,254.080.2315

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssed Trinyte` haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,254.080.2316

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_080:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrete att Norwyche on +te Tesday next after +te Conuercion $of Seynt
Poull . Be yourys , M. P. PASTON,I,254.080.2317

<Q_PAS_C_1454?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_081> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,254>

{ED:151._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PERHAPS_1454_1_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchippfull hosbond John Paston be this delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,254.081.2318

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right worchipfull hosbond , I recommand me to yow , praying yow to wete
that I haue receyved your letter this day +tat ye sent me be
Yelvertonys man . PASTON,I,254.081.2319

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for your signette , I fond itt uppon your bord the same day +tat ye
went hens , PASTON,I,254.081.2320

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I send it yow be Richard Heberd , brynger herof .
PASTON,I,254.081.2321

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for your erondys +tat ye wrete to me fore , Richard Charles is owte
$abought your erendys abowte Gresham , and for his awyn materys also ,
PASTON,I,254.081.2322

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose he komyth not hom tyll it be Tesday or Weddenesday next
komyng . PASTON,I,254.081.2323

<P_I,255>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And alssone as he komyth hom he shall go abowte your erondys +tat ye
wrete to me fore . PASTON,I,255.081.2324

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent yow a lettere wreten on Tesday last past , whiche as I suppose
Roger Ormesby delyueryd yow . PASTON,I,255.081.2325

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I toke it to Alson Pertryche ; PASTON,I,255.081.2326

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
she rod wyth Clyppysbys wyff to London . PASTON,I,255.081.2327

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow if ye haue an othere sone that ye woll lete it be named
Herry in remembrans of your brother Herry . PASTON,I,255.081.2328

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I pray yow that ye woll send me datys and synamun as hastyly as ye
may . PASTON,I,255.081.2329

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue speke wyth John Damme of that ye bad me sey to hem to sey to
Thomas Note , PASTON,I,255.081.2330

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he $seyd he was well payd +tat ye seyd and $thowght +ter-in as ye
dede . PASTON,I,255.081.2331

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nerles I bad hym +tat he shuld sey to the seyd Thomas +ter-in as it
were of hymself , wyth-owte your avys or any otherys ;
PASTON,I,255.081.2332

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he shuld so , and that it shuld be purveyd for this next
weke at the ferthest . PASTON,I,255.081.2333

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssed Trinyte` haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,255.081.2334

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_081:M4:1454?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att Norwyche in hast the Fryday next before Candelmesse Day . Be
youre gronyng wyff , M. P. PASTON,I,255.081.2335

<Q_PAS_C_1459?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_082> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,255>

{ED:152._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_ABOUT_1459,_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull housbonde , I recomende me on-to yow .
PASTON,I,255.082.2336

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wete +tat I sent Tomas Bon to Edwarde Coteler to haue on
ansuer of the mater +tat ye spak to hym of , PASTON,I,255.082.2337

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sent me worde +tat he hade spok to hys man +ter-of ;
PASTON,I,255.082.2338

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde hym that he hade no wrytyng nor euidens of no <P_I,256>
swyche thyng as ye spak to hym of , ner not wyst were he scholde haue
cnowlage of no swyche thyng , saue he tolde hym +tat he receyvyd onys j
c s. of +te same rent . PASTON,I,256.082.2339

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But and he may haue cnowlage of ony man +tat havyth ony wrytyng or ony
thyng +tat may out prevayle , he schal late yow have cnoulage ther-of .
PASTON,I,256.082.2340

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Wylliam Yellverton , he come here never syn ye yede .
PASTON,I,256.082.2341

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for my Lady Stapullton , att +te wrytyng of thys letter sche was not
come home . PASTON,I,256.082.2342

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wyndhamys erend to my lady of Southefolk was to desiyr hyr gode
ladychep , and to beseche hyr +tat sche wolde spek to my cosyn
Evenyngham +tat he myt have hys gode wyll . PASTON,I,256.082.2343

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For he levith jn hope to have hys modyr , PASTON,I,256.082.2344

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath made menys to have hyr by John Gros and hys wyf , and by
Bokynham and by odyr dyuers , PASTON,I,256.082.2345

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and profiryth hyr to find suerete` to aquitt hyr housbondys dettys +te
qwyche is ccc marc and to pay itt doune on j day .
PASTON,I,256.082.2346

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And by thys mene , as he seyth , he hathe bargeynid wyth j marchande of
London PASTON,I,256.082.2347

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath solde to hym +te mariage of hys son , for +te qwyche he scal
have vij c marc ; PASTON,I,256.082.2348

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and of +tat +te iij c marc schoulde be payd for +te forseyd dettys ,
PASTON,I,256.082.2349

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also he proforyth to yeue hyr +te maner of Felbryg to hyr joyntour
, and odyr $large proforys , as ye schal here eraffter .
PASTON,I,256.082.2350

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for +te good wyll of my cosyn Heuenyngham , he seyth $Wyndham he
schall neuer have hytt , nott for to have hyr gode .
PASTON,I,256.082.2351

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Konyth he hys soull hevy ther-of , PASTON,I,256.082.2352

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he js a-ferde +tat and if +te large proforys may be $performyd +tat
sche wyll have hym . PASTON,I,256.082.2353

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My seyd cosyn preyith yow , att +te reuerens of Gode , +tat ye wyll do
yowyr $part +ter-in to brec it and ye can . PASTON,I,256.082.2354

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He schall be here a-yen on Mychaell-mas Evyn ; PASTON,I,256.082.2355

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he was full sory +tat ye were outt att +tis tyme ,
PASTON,I,256.082.2356

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hopyd +tat ye schoulde have do myche goode att +tis tyme .
PASTON,I,256.082.2357

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hathe seyde as myche +ter a-geyns as he dar do to haue hyr gode
modyrchep . PASTON,I,256.082.2358

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lady of Southefolce sent j letter to hyr yester-day by Stanle` , +te
qwyche is callyd j well cherysyd man wyth my seyd lady , and desyiryng
hyr in +te letter +tat sche wolde owe hyr godde wyll and favor to
Wyndham in +tat +tat he desyiryd of hyr , and of more matterys +tat ye
schall here er-after , PASTON,I,256.082.2359

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I suppose sche wyll schew yow +te same letter and mak yow of hyr
counsel in many thyngys . PASTON,I,256.082.2360

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I schall do my part as feythfully as I can to lett Wyndhamys
porpose tyl ye come home . PASTON,I,256.082.2361

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow sende me a copy of hys petygre` , +tat I may schew to hyr
how worcheppfull it is , PASTON,I,256.082.2362

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in goode feythe sche is informyd bi hyr gentyll son Gros and
Bokenham +tat he is mor worcheppfull in berthe and in lyuelode
<P_I,257> +ter-to than they or ony odyr can preue , as I suppose .
PASTON,I,257.082.2363

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow lett nott thys mater be discuyryd tyl ye her more ther-of ,
or after , PASTON,I,257.082.2364

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my cosyn $Heuenyngham tolde myche here-of in secret wyse , and of
odyr thyngis qwyche ye schall haue $cnoulage of qwan ye come home , &c
. PASTON,I,257.082.2365

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_082:M4:1459?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In hast , all jn hast . PASTON,I,257.082.2366

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_083> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,258>

{ED:154._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1460,_21_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull husbond Jon Paston be thys delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,258.083.2367

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Ryth worchepfull husbonde , I recomand me to yow .
PASTON,I,258.083.2368

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyth it yow to wet that I receyuyd yowyr letter +tat ye sent me by
Nycolas Colman on Sonday last past ; PASTON,I,258.083.2369

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for the mater +tat ye desyiryd me to breke of to my cosyn
Rokwode , it fortunyd so +tat he came to me on Sonday to dyner sone
aftyr +tat I had yowyr letter , PASTON,I,258.083.2370

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and when we had dynyd I mevyd to hym ther-of in couert termys , as
Playter schall informe yow eraftyr . PASTON,I,258.083.2371

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as I thowt by hym , and so ded Playter also by the langwage +tat he
had to vs , +tat he wold be as feythfull as he kowd or myte be to that
good lorde +tat ye wrot of , and to yow also , in onythynge +tat he
kowde or myte do in case wer +tat he wer set in offyse so +tat he myth
owte do . PASTON,I,258.083.2372

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ther-to he seyd he wolde be bownde in a m=l= li. , and he wer so
myche worthe . PASTON,I,258.083.2373

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the todyr +tat ye desyiryd I scholde meue to of the same mater ,
me semyth he is to yonge to take ony swhyche thyngys vp-on hym ,
PASTON,I,258.083.2374

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also I knowe <P_I,259> veryly +tat he schall neuer loue feythfully
the todyr man that ye desyiryd +tat he schuld do for when he
$remembryth the tyme +tat is paste ; PASTON,I,259.083.2375

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther-for I spak not to hym ther-of . PASTON,I,259.083.2376

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys day was holde a gret day at Okyll befor the vndyr-schreue and the
$vndyr-exchetor <em> , for </em> the mater of Syr Jon Fastolfys londys
, PASTON,I,259.083.2377

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there was my cosyn Rookwod and my cosyn Jon Berney of $Redham and
dyuers odyr jentylmen and thryfty men of the contre` ;
PASTON,I,259.083.2378

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the mater is well sped aftyr yowyr intent , blyssyd be God , as ye
schall haue knowlage of in hast . PASTON,I,259.083.2379

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose Playter schall be wyth yow on Sonday or on Monday next comyng
, if he may . PASTON,I,259.083.2380

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye haue many good prayers of the poer pepyl +tat God schuld sped yow at
thys parlement , PASTON,I,259.083.2381

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they leue in hope +tat ye schold helpe to set a wey +tat they myte
leue in better pese in thys contre` thane {in}_P they haue do befor ,
and +tat wollys schold be purueyd for +tat they schuld not go owt of
thys lond as it hathe be suffryd to do be-fore ; PASTON,I,259.083.2382

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thane schalle the poer pepyll moue leue bettyr thane they haue do
by her ocwpacion ther-in . PASTON,I,259.083.2383

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Bone hathe solde all yowyr wole her for xx d. a stone , and
goode swerte` fownd to yow ther-for to be payid a Myhellmas next comyng
; PASTON,I,259.083.2384

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is solde ryth well aftyr +tat the wole was ,
PASTON,I,259.083.2385

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the moste part was ryte febyll . PASTON,I,259.083.2386

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ther be bawt for yow iij horse at Seynt Feythys feyr ,
PASTON,I,259.083.2387

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all be trotterys , ryth fayir horse , God saue hem , and they be
well kepyd . PASTON,I,259.083.2388

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , yowyre myllys at Heylysdon be late for xij marke and the myller
to fynde the reparacion , PASTON,I,259.083.2389

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Rychard Calle hathe let all yowyr londys at Caster ;
PASTON,I,259.083.2390

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as for Mawtby londys , they be not let yet . PASTON,I,259.083.2391

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wylliam Whyte hathe payid me a-geyne thys daye hys x li. ,
PASTON,I,259.083.2392

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue mad hym a qwetans there-of be-cause I had not hys oblygacion
. PASTON,I,259.083.2393

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther is gret talkyng in thys contre` of the desyir of my lorde of York
. PASTON,I,259.083.2394

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll reporte full worchepfully of my lord of Warwyk .
PASTON,I,259.083.2395

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They haue no fer her but +tat he and othyr scholde schewe to gret favor
to hem +tat haue be rewyllerys of thys contre` be-for tyme .
PASTON,I,259.083.2396

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue done all yowyr erendys to Syr Thomas Howes +tat ye wrote to me
for . PASTON,I,259.083.2397

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I ame ryth glade +tat ye haue sped welle in yowyr materys be-twyxe Syr
Fylyp Wentworthe and yow , PASTON,I,259.083.2398

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I pray God ye may do in all othyr materys to hys plesans .
PASTON,I,259.083.2399

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the wrytyngys +tat ye desyiryd +tat Playter schulde sende yow ,
Rychard Call tolde me +tat they wer at Herry Barborys at the Tempyll
gate . PASTON,I,259.083.2400

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The meyir and the meyires sent hedyr her dynerys thys day ,
PASTON,I,259.083.2401

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Jon Dame came wyth hem , PASTON,I,259.083.2402

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they dynyd her . PASTON,I,259.083.2403

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am beholde to hem , PASTON,I,259.083.2404

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for <P_I,260> they haue sent to me dyuers tymys sythe ye yed hense .
PASTON,I,260.083.2405

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The meyr seyth +tat ther is no jentylman in Northefolk +tat he wolle do
more for thane he wole for yow , if it laye in hys poer to do for yow .
PASTON,I,260.083.2406

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Perse is stylle in presone , PASTON,I,260.083.2407

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wolle not confese mor thane he ded when ye wer at home .
PASTON,I,260.083.2408

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Edmond Brome was wyth me PASTON,I,260.083.2409

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tolde me +tat Perse sent for hym for to come spek wyth hym ,
PASTON,I,260.083.2410

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde me +tat he was <em> wyth hym </em> PASTON,I,260.083.2411

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and examynyd hym , PASTON,I,260.083.2412

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he wold not be a-knowe to hym +tat he had no knowlage wher no goode
was of hys masterys more thane he hade knowlageyd to yow .
PASTON,I,260.083.2413

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He tolde me +tat he sent for hym to desyir hym to labore to yow and to
me for hym if ye had be at home , PASTON,I,260.083.2414

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde me +tat he seyd to hym a-yen +tat he wold neuer labor for
hym but he myth know +tat he wer trwe to hys mastyr , thow it lay in
hys power to do ryth myche for hym . PASTON,I,260.083.2415

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose it schulde do none harme thow the seyd Perse wer remevyd
ferther . PASTON,I,260.083.2416

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray to Gode yeue grace +tat the trowthe may be knowe , and that the
dede may haue part of hys owne goode . PASTON,I,260.083.2417

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinyte` haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,260.083.2418

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast at Heylysdon the Tuesday next aftyr Seynt Lwke .
PASTON,I,260.083.2419

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_083:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yowyrs , M. P. PASTON,I,260.083.2420

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_084> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,260>

{ED:155._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1460,_29_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth welbelovyd brodyr $Clement Paston , for to delyuer
$to hys brodyr Jon jn hast . </font> PASTON,I,260.084.2421

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth $worchepfull husbonde , I recomande me to yow .
PASTON,I,260.084.2422

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyth yow to weet +tat I receyvyd a lettyr on Seynt Symondys Evyn and
$Jwd +tat $came frome Jon Paston , in the wyche lettyr he wrot +tat ye
desyiryd +tat I scholde do Jon Paston or Thomas $Playter looke in the
gret standyng chyste in on of the gret canvas baggys whyche standyth
a-geyns the lokk , for the copys of the fals inqwest of ofys +tat was
fownde in Northefolk , <P_I,261> and for the kopy of the comyssyon +tat
came to Jon Andrewys and Fylpot and Heydon , and othyr thyngys
towchynge the same mater . PASTON,I,261.084.2423

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue do Jon Paston sowte all iij grete baggys in the seyd kofyr at
ryth good leyser , PASTON,I,261.084.2424

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he can non swhyche fynde . PASTON,I,261.084.2425

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyth it yow to remembre ye sent me worde in the fyrste lettyr +tat
ye sent me +tat ye wolde +tat Playter scholde a sent hem vp to yow to
London , PASTON,I,261.084.2426

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schewyd hym yowyr wryttyng howe +tat ye wrote to me ther-in .
PASTON,I,261.084.2427

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose be-cawse he purpoosyd to come vp to London hym-selue hastely
, he sent yow none answer ther-of . PASTON,I,261.084.2428

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rychard Calle told me +tat all swhyche thyngys wer lefte wyth Hery
Barbore at the Tempyle gate when the laste terme was doo ,
PASTON,I,261.084.2429

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I sent yow worde in a lettyr whiche was wretyn on the Twesday
next aftyr Seynt Lwke , PASTON,I,261.084.2430

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther-in was an answer of all the fyrst lettyr +tat ye sent me .
PASTON,I,261.084.2431

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent it yow by yonge Thomas Elys , PASTON,I,261.084.2432

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I sent yow a-nothyr lettyr by Playter the whyche was wretyn on
Saterday last past . PASTON,I,261.084.2433

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I receyvyd a lettyr frome yow on Sonday , of the wyche I sent
yow an answher of in a lettyr on Seynt Symondys Euen and Jwde by
$Edmunde Clere of Stokysby , PASTON,I,261.084.2434

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as sone as I hade the seyd lettyr on Sonday I sent to Syr Thomas
Howes for the mater +tat ye desyiryd +tat he scholde inqwer of to
Bokyng . PASTON,I,261.084.2435

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I sent a-yene sethe to the seyd Syr Thomas for to have knowlage of
the same mater yestyr-daye , PASTON,I,261.084.2436

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue non answher of hym yet . PASTON,I,261.084.2437

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He sent me worde he scholde do hys part ther-in , PASTON,I,261.084.2438

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but othyr answer have I none yet of hym . PASTON,I,261.084.2439

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sende yow in a canvase bage inselyd by Nycolas Colman as many of
Crystofyr Hansonys acomptys as I and Jon Paston cane fynde ther as ye
sent worde +tat they wer . PASTON,I,261.084.2440

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rychard Harbard recomawndyth hym to yow , PASTON,I,261.084.2441

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayth yowe +tat $ye wole wyche-saue to remembre the lettyr that
scholde be sent fro my lorde of Warwyk to a man of hys beyng at
Lowystofete , and if it be not sent to hym +tat it plese yow to do
purvey +tat it may be sent to hym in haste if it maye be . As tomorow
ther schall be keppyd a day at Bownggey for Mastyr Fastolfys londys
be-for the exchetore , and ther schall be Wylliam Barker and Rychard
Call . PASTON,I,261.084.2442

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye schall haue knowlage in haste what schall be do ther .
PASTON,I,261.084.2443

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinite` haue yow in hys keppyng .
PASTON,I,261.084.2444

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_084:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in haste at Norwyche on the Wednysday next aftyr Seynt Symond
and Jwde . By yowyr M. P. PASTON,I,261.084.2445

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_085> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,262>

{ED:156._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1460,_25_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurshipfull husbonde John Paston be this deliuerd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,262.085.2446

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurshipfull husbonde , I recomaunde me vnto you .
PASTON,I,262.085.2447

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesith you to witte that myn avnte Mondeforthe hath desiryd me to
write to you besechyng you that ye wol wechesafe to chevesshe for her
at London xx=ti= marke for to be payed to Mastre Ponyngys outher-3 on
Saterday or Sonday , weche $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} Seint Andrwes Daye
, in discharchyng of them that be bounden to Mastre Ponyngys of the
seide xx=ti= marke for the wardeship of here doughter ; the weche
xx=ti= marke she hath delyuerd to me in golde for you to haue at your
comyng home , PASTON,I,262.085.2448

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she dare not aventure here money to be brought vp to London for
feere of robbyng PASTON,I,262.085.2449

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it $is $seide heere that there goothe many thefys be-twyx this and
London , weche causeth here to beseche you to content the seide money
in dischargyng of the matre and of them that be bounden ,
PASTON,I,262.085.2450

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she wolde for no goode that the day were broken .
PASTON,I,262.085.2451

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And she thankyth you hertely for the greet labour and besynesse that ye
haue had in that matre , and in all others touchyng her and hers ,
wherfore she seithe she is ever bounden to be your bedwoman and ever
$will $be {TEXT:wolbe} whyle she levethe . PASTON,I,262.085.2452

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosyn , her sone , and hese wife recomaundethe them vnto you ,
besechyng you that ye woll weche-safe to be her goode mastre , as ye
haue ben a-fore tyme . PASTON,I,262.085.2453

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For they be enformed that Danyell is comen to Rysyng Castell and hes
men make her bost that her mastre shal be a-yene at Brayston wythinne
shorte tyme . PASTON,I,262.085.2454

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ferthermore , as for the matre that my sone wrote to me for , the boxe
wheron ys wreten ' Falce carte Sproute ' that I shulde enquere of
William Wurcestre wher it were , PASTON,I,262.085.2455

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the seide William <P_I,263> was not at home sen that I had hes letter ,
PASTON,I,263.085.2456

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as sone as he comethe home I shall enquere of hym and sende you an
answere . PASTON,I,263.085.2457

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As towchyng for your leveryes , ther can noon be gete heere of that
coloure that ye wolde haue of nouther murrey nor blwe nor goode
russettys vndrenethe iij s. the yerde at the lowest price ,
PASTON,I,263.085.2458

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet is ther not j-nough of on clothe and coloure to serue you .
PASTON,I,263.085.2459

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for to be purveid in Suffolk it $will $not {TEXT:wolnot} be
purveide nought now a-yenst this tyme wythoute they had had warnyng at
Michelmesse , as I am enformed . PASTON,I,263.085.2460

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blissed Trenyte` haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,263.085.2461

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_085:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wreten at Norweche on Seint Kateryn Day . Be your Margaret Paston
PASTON,I,263.085.2462

<Q_PAS_C_1460_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_086> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,263>

{ED:157._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1460,_1_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull husbond Jon Paston be thys $lettyr
delyueryd in haste . </font> PASTON,I,263.086.2463

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,263.086.2464

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyth it yow to wet +tat Jon Jeney was her wyth me thys daye
PASTON,I,263.086.2465

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told me +tat ye desyiryd +tat I schold do make a dyche at Heylysdon
; PASTON,I,263.086.2466

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the seson is not for to do make no new dechys nor to repare non old
tyll it be aftyr Crystmas , as it is told me , PASTON,I,263.086.2467

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I sent yow word in a lettyr more thane a monythe goo .
PASTON,I,263.086.2468

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wot not whedyr ye had the lettyr or not , PASTON,I,263.086.2469

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I had non answer ther-of fro yow . PASTON,I,263.086.2470

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jone Dyngayne recomandyth hyr to yow , PASTON,I,263.086.2471

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayith yow for Goddys sake +tat ye wole be hyr good mastyr and
+tat ye wole wychesaue to spek to Hwe of Fen for hyr ;
PASTON,I,263.086.2472

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is so +tat serteyn lyuelod whyche hyr husbond had in Engham was
cast in the Kyngys hand in hyr husbondys lyue , PASTON,I,263.086.2473

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as sche vndyrstondyth it was do in hys fadyrys lyue , of the whyche
hyr husbond spak to Hwe of Fen ther-of in hys lyue , to helpe +tat he
myth be dycharchyd ther-of . PASTON,I,263.086.2474

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Hwe of Fen promysyd hym verily +tat he had mad an ende ther-in and
dychargyd hym , and +tat he schold neuer be hurt nor trublyd ther-for ;
PASTON,I,263.086.2475

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now the laste wek Barnard the vndyre-scheryfe sent downe a warant
to sese the lond for the Kynge . PASTON,I,263.086.2476

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so , but he haue xx s. for a fyne wyth-in schorte tyme , he wol not
suffyr hyr to haue the <P_I,264> auayle of the londys ; wher-fore sche
prayth yow for Goddys sak +tat ye wole puruey a mene +tat Hwe of Fen
may saue hyr harmeles , in as myche as he promysyd hyr husbond to
puruey $therfore in hys lyue . And if it plese not yow to spek to hym
ther-of , +tat it plese yow to do Jon Paston or Thomas Playter or sume
othyr +tat ye thynk +tat cane vndyr-stonde the mater for to spek to the
seyd Hwe of Fen ther-of in hyr name , and to serge the Kyngys bokys
ther-fore , if ye thynk +tat it be for to do , PASTON,I,264.086.2477

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche woll ber the cost ther-of . PASTON,I,264.086.2478

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the mater +tat ye wold I schold spek to Wylliam Worcester of
towchyng the false forgyd euydens , I can not spek wyth hym yet ;
PASTON,I,264.086.2479

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hys wyfe seyth allwe +tat he is owte when +tat I send for hym .
PASTON,I,264.086.2480

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowyr fermore of Sweynysthorpe hathe fownde suerte` for yowyr dute` ,
as Rychard Calle tellyth me , so +tat ye schall be plesyd when ye come
home . PASTON,I,264.086.2481

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinite` haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,264.086.2482

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_086:M4:1460:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on the Monday next aftyr Seynt Andrew . By yowyr M. P.
PASTON,I,264.086.2483

<Q_PAS_C_1461?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_087> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,264>

{ED:158._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1461,_1_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wytte that it is lete me witte by on +tat owith you
good wyll that +ter is leid awayte up-on you in +tis cuntre` yf ye come
here at large , to bryng you to +te presence of suyche a lord in the
north as shall not be for your ease , but to iopardie of your lyf or
gret and importable losse of your goodes . PASTON,I,264.087.2484

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he that hath take up-on hym +tis enterprise now was vndreshireff to
G. Sayntlowe ; PASTON,I,264.087.2485

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he hath gret fauour herto by the meanes of the sone of William Baxter
that lyth beryed in the Grey Freres . PASTON,I,264.087.2486

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as it is reported the seid sone hath geue gret syluer to +te lordes
in the north to bryng +te matier a-bowte , PASTON,I,264.087.2487

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now he and alle his olde felaweship put owt their fynnes
PASTON,I,264.087.2488

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and arn right flygge and mery , hopyng alle thyng is and $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} <P_I,265> as they wole haue it . PASTON,I,265.087.2489

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also it is tolde me that the fadre of the Bastard in this cuntre` seid
that now shuld this shire be made sewir for hym and his heires
hens-forward , and for the Baxsteris heyres also ; wherby I conceyve
they thynke that they haue none enemy but you , &c. Wherfor like it you
to be +te more ware of your gydyng for your persones sauf-gard , and
also that ye be not to hasty to come in-to +tis cuntre` til ye here +te
world more sewer . PASTON,I,265.087.2490

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trowe the berar of this shall telle more by mowthe , as he shall be
enfourmed , of the revell in this cuntre` . PASTON,I,265.087.2491

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,265.087.2492

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_087:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast the secund Sunday of Lent by candel light at euyn . By
yours , &c. M. PASTON,I,265.087.2493

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_088> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,270>

{ED:163._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_2_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,270.088.2494

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet that I receyvyd yowyr lettyr +tat ye sent me by John
Holme on Wednysday last past . PASTON,I,270.088.2495

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I receyvyd a-nothyr lettyr on Fryday at nyt +tat ye sent me by
Nycolas Newmanys man , of the whyche lettrys I thanc yow ,
PASTON,I,270.088.2496

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I schold ellys a thowt +tat it had be wers wyth yow than it hathe
be , or schall be by the grace of almyty God . PASTON,I,270.088.2497

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet I kowd not be mery sethyn I had the last lettyr tyll thys day
+tat the meyir sent to me and sent me word +tat he had knowlage for
very trowthe +tat ye wer delyueryd owt of the Flet and +tat Howard was
comytyd to ward for dyuers gret compleyntys +tat wer <P_I,271> mad to
the Kyng of hym . PASTON,I,271.088.2498

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was talkyd in Norwyche and in dyuers othyr plasys in +te contre` on
Saterday last past +tat ye wer comytyd to Flet , PASTON,I,271.088.2499

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in good feyth , as I herd say , the pepyle was ryth sory ther-of ,
bothe of Norwyche and in the contre` . PASTON,I,271.088.2500

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye are ryth myche bownde to thank God , and all tho +tat loue yow ,
+tat ye haue so gret loue of the pepyll as ye haue .
PASTON,I,271.088.2501

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye ar myche behold to the meyir and to Gylberd , and to dyuers othyr of
+te aldyrmen , PASTON,I,271.088.2502

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for feythfully the owe yow good wyll to ther porys .
PASTON,I,271.088.2503

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue spoke wyth Syr Thomas Howys for swyche thyngys as ye wrot to me
for , PASTON,I,271.088.2504

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he promysyd me +tat he schold labour it aftyr yowyr intent as fast
as he kowd ; PASTON,I,271.088.2505

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in good feyth , as my brodyr and Playter kan telle yow , as be hys
seying to vs he is and wole be feythfull to yow . PASTON,I,271.088.2506

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for Wylliam Wyrcestyr , he hathe be set so vp-on the hone , what
by the parson and by othyr , as my brodyr and Playter schall telle yow
, +tat they hope he wole do well inow . PASTON,I,271.088.2507

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The parson seyd ryth well and pleynly to hym . PASTON,I,271.088.2508

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The parson tolde me +tat he had spook wyth Syr Wylliam Chambyrleyn and
wyth hys wyfe , PASTON,I,271.088.2509

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he thynkyth +tat they wole do well j-now aftyr yowyr intent , so
+tat they be plesantly intretyd . PASTON,I,271.088.2510

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The parson told me +tat he wyst well +tat Syr Wylliam Chambyrleyn cowd
do more ese in swyche materys as ye wrot of towchyng my lord of Bedford
than ony man kowd do +tat leueyth at thys day . PASTON,I,271.088.2511

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he told me +tat he felt by hem +tat they wold owe yow ryth good
wyll so +tat ye wold owe hem good wyll . PASTON,I,271.088.2512

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The parson hopyth uerily to make yow acordyd when he comyth to London .
PASTON,I,271.088.2513

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my brodyr and Playter wer wyth Calthorp to inquer of the mater
+tat ye wrot to me of . PASTON,I,271.088.2514

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What answer he gaue hem they schall tell yow . PASTON,I,271.088.2515

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent the parson of Heylysdon to Gurnay to spek to hym of the same
mater , PASTON,I,271.088.2516

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth feythefully ther was no swyche thyng desyiryd of hym ,
PASTON,I,271.088.2517

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thow it had be desyiryd he wold nowthyr a seyd nor done a-yens yow
. PASTON,I,271.088.2518

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd he had euer fownde you louyng and feythfull to hym ,
PASTON,I,271.088.2519

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he seyd he wold be to yow to hys power , and desyiryng me +tat I
wold not thynk hym the contrary . PASTON,I,271.088.2520

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for John Gros , he is at Slole` ; PASTON,I,271.088.2521

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther-for he myth not be spok wyth . PASTON,I,271.088.2522

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat ye wole send me word whedyr ye wole +tat I schall
remeue frome hens , PASTON,I,271.088.2523

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it begynyth to wax a cold abydyng her . PASTON,I,271.088.2524

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr Thomas Howys and John Rus schall make an end of all thyngys aftyr
yowyr intent as myche as they can do ther-in +tis wek ,
PASTON,I,271.088.2525

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he purposyth to come forward to yow on +te Monday next aftyr Seynt
Leonardys Day . PASTON,I,271.088.2526

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My brodyr and Playter schold a be wyth yow er thys tym , but +tat they
wold a-byd tyl thys day wer past be-cause of the schyer .
PASTON,I,271.088.2527

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spak to my brodyr Wylliam as ye bad me , PASTON,I,271.088.2528

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me , so God hym help , +tat he hyryd ij horse ij dayis
be-for +tat ye redyn , +tat he myth a ryde forthe wyth yow ;
PASTON,I,271.088.2529

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be-cause +tat ye <P_I,272> spak not to hym to ryde wyth yow he seyd
+tat he wend ye wold $not haue had hym wyth yow . PASTON,I,272.088.2530

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Fastolfys modyr was her on +te next day aftyr ye wer redyn , to
haue spok wyth yow for hyr sone . PASTON,I,272.088.2531

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche prayith yow , at the reuerens of God , +tat ye wole be hys good
mastyr , and to help hym in hys ryth , +tat he may haue hys lyuelod owt
of ther handys +tat haue had it in hys nownage . PASTON,I,272.088.2532

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche seyth +tat they wold mak him a yer yonger than he is ,
PASTON,I,272.088.2533

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but sche seyth +tat he is more than xxj PASTON,I,272.088.2534

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and vpon +tat sche dare take an othe . PASTON,I,272.088.2535

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trynyte` haue yow in hys kepyng PASTON,I,272.088.2536

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow good sped in all yowyr materys , PASTON,I,272.088.2537

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +te vyctory of all yowyr enmyis . PASTON,I,272.088.2538

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_088:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Sowlemas Daye . By yowyrs , M. P.
PASTON,I,272.088.2539

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_089> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,272>

{ED:164._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_16_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my right wurchipfull husbond John Paston be this deliuerd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,272.089.2540

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Ryth $worchepfull husbond , I recomande me to yow .
PASTON,I,272.089.2541

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyth yow to weet +tat Thomas Grene was wyth me as on Saterday last
paste , PASTON,I,272.089.2542

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and let me haue knowlage +tat the scherre schold be as thys day at the
gylde-hall in Norwyche ; PASTON,I,272.089.2543

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he desyiryd me +tat the swte +tat ye have a-geyns Thomas Jeryng and
othyr myth be sesyd as for thys schere . PASTON,I,272.089.2544

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I seyd +tat I durste do ryth not ther-in , PASTON,I,272.089.2545

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde me +tat Thomas Jeryng was wyth yow in Flegge the laste
tyme +tat ye wer ther , PASTON,I,272.089.2546

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye seyd to hym +tat he scholde not be hvrte by the swte .
PASTON,I,272.089.2547

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Thomas Grene tolde me +tat if the seyd Jeryng and othyr in the same
wryte mad not an end wyth yow by the nexte schere , +te whyche schall
be thys day monyth , +tat the seyd Thomas <P_I,273> Grene wole purchese
a new wryte of hys owne coste ayens +tat daye . PASTON,I,273.089.2548

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I woste not +tat the scher schuld be so sone when I wrote to yow yowyr
laste lettyr . PASTON,I,273.089.2549

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he remembyryd the trobulus werd +tat is nowe , and also +tat they
wer nowtye felawys +tat ye svyd , and ther-fore he thowte +tat it wer
best to let it be respyte at thys tyme ; PASTON,I,273.089.2550

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they schall be respyth at thys tyme . PASTON,I,273.089.2551

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent to Jaferey Spyrlyng for the bokys +tat ye sent to me fore ,
PASTON,I,273.089.2552

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth +tat he hathe none ther-of , PASTON,I,273.089.2553

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyth he lefte hem wyth yow when he was wyth yow in the northe
contre` , PASTON,I,273.089.2554

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyth ye left hym behynd yow at Lynkcolne ;
PASTON,I,273.089.2555

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he supposyth they be at Kaster . PASTON,I,273.089.2556

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my cosyn Crane recomandyth hyr to yow PASTON,I,273.089.2557

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayith yow +tat ye wole wychesaue to spek to Jamys Gresham for to
swe forthe the mater betwyx Dame Margaret Spurdans and hyr ;
PASTON,I,273.089.2558

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche prayith yow at the reuerens of God +tat ye wole tendyr +tat
mater well , PASTON,I,273.089.2559

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for all hyr troste is in yow . PASTON,I,273.089.2560

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the tenauntys at Sweynysthorp prayid me for to wryte to yow for
to pray yow for Goddys sake +tat ye wole help forto get hem a good baly
of the $hundyryd +tat they be in , PASTON,I,273.089.2561

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they sey +tat they haue be gretly hurte by swyche offyserys as they
haue had ther be-for tyme . PASTON,I,273.089.2562

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Folk wold fayne in thys contre` +tat Heydon scholde be purveyd for +tat
he goo not so at large as he dothe , PASTON,I,273.089.2563

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is in thys towne ner euery wek , PASTON,I,273.089.2564

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hathe be euer syne ye $yed hens . PASTON,I,273.089.2565

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also it is seyd in thys towne +tat ye haue be good master thys
terme to Yatys , PASTON,I,273.089.2566

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and many be ryth sory ther-of , and +tat he dothe so well as it $is
seyd her +tat he dothe . PASTON,I,273.089.2567

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is seyd +tat he is scapyd all dangerys , PASTON,I,273.089.2568

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hathe tak new accionys ageyns hys neyborys , as it is seyd .
PASTON,I,273.089.2569

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Othyr tydyngys haue we none here but +tat ye haue more pleynly ther .
PASTON,I,273.089.2570

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinyte` haue yow in hys kepyng , PASTON,I,273.089.2571

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow good sped in all yowyr materys . PASTON,I,273.089.2572

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in haste at Norwyche the Monday next be-for Seynt $Edmunde the
Kynge . By yowyr M. P. PASTON,I,273.089.2573

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr wold ryth fayne know how +tat ye and my brodyr Wylliam wer
a-cordyd ; PASTON,I,273.089.2574

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_089:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sche wold ryth fayne +tat all wer well be-twen yow .
PASTON,I,273.089.2575

<Q_PAS_C_1461?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_090> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,274>

{ED:165._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1461,_20_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull $husbond John Paston be this delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,274.090.2576

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,274.090.2577

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat I receyvyd yowyr lettyr +tat ye sent by the
gold-smyth as thys day in the mornyng . PASTON,I,274.090.2578

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Syr Thomas , he sent me word he schold to yow ward as on Twysday
last past . PASTON,I,274.090.2579

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If he fayle ony thyng +tat ye sent word he schold bryng wyth hym it is
not for no lak of remembrans , PASTON,I,274.090.2580

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I sent to hym thryis or fowyr tymys ther-for , and +tat he schold
hast hym ther-in . PASTON,I,274.090.2581

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Rychard Call , he was not at hom thys fortnyth .
PASTON,I,274.090.2582

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When he comyth I schall do yowir erendys to hym . PASTON,I,274.090.2583

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for all yowyr odyr erendys , I schall do hem as well as I can .
PASTON,I,274.090.2584

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent yow a byll yestyrday by old Tauerham , and a byll of Jone Gaynys
mater , the whyche bylle I pray yow may be delyueryd to Thomas Playter
. PASTON,I,274.090.2585

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spak to hym of the same mater or he yed hens , PASTON,I,274.090.2586

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray yow , if it plese yow , to geue hym yowyr avyse what ye
thynk is best to do ther-in . PASTON,I,274.090.2587

Sche seyth sche is ryth sory if hyr old mastyr demene hym not well to
yow . PASTON,I,274.090.2588

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche prayith yow +tat ye wole be hyr good mastyr , and +tat sche fare
neuer the werse for hys defawtys ; PASTON,I,274.090.2589

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also I pray yow +tat ye wole be John Lysterys good mastyr in hys
mater . PASTON,I,274.090.2590

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He spak to Playter ther-of , PASTON,I,274.090.2591

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Playter seyd he hopyd to fynd a mene , aftyr +tat he had spook wyth
yow , +tat schold ese hym ther-in . PASTON,I,274.090.2592

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thank yow hertly for yowyr lettyr , PASTON,I,274.090.2593

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was to me gret comfort to her fro yow . PASTON,I,274.090.2594

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God knowyth my modyr and I thowt ryth longe tyll we herd tydyngys fro
yow . PASTON,I,274.090.2595

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinite` haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,274.090.2596

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Seynt $Edmundys Day the Kyng . By yowyr M. P.
PASTON,I,274.090.2597

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll was nevyr bettyr dysposyd to yow than they be at thys owyr .
PASTON,I,274.090.2598

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The byll +tat Howard hathe mad a-yens yow and odyr hathe set the pepyll
in thys contre` a rore . PASTON,I,274.090.2599

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_090:M4:1461?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God yeue grace it be no werse than it is yet . PASTON,I,274.090.2600

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_091> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,275>

{ED:166._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_3_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurchepfull husbond , I recomaund me to you .
PASTON,I,275.091.2601

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wete that myn awnte is dissesid , whos sowle God
assoyll . PASTON,I,275.091.2602

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if it please you to send word how ye wull +tat we do for the
lifflode that she had at Walcote , wheder ye wull +tat any body take
possession there in yowr name or not , and if it like you to haue wyth
you my cosyn William , here sone , I trow ye shuld fynde hym a
necessary man to take hede to yowre howshold and to bye all maner of
stuffe nedefull +ter-to , and to se to +te rewle and gode gidyn +ter-of
; PASTON,I,275.091.2603

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it hath be told me be-fore +tat he can gode skill of such thynges .
PASTON,I,275.091.2604

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if ye wull +tat I send for hym and speke wyth hym there-of I shall
do as ye send me word , PASTON,I,275.091.2605

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in feyth it is tyme to crone yowr old officere for diuerse thynges
, where-of I haue know parte be Dawbeney PASTON,I,275.091.2606

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and more I shall telle you whan ye come home . PASTON,I,275.091.2607

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also it is thought be my cosyn Elisabeth Clere and +te vikere and
othere +tat be yowr frendes that it is right necessary for you to haue
Hew of Fen to be yowr frende in yowr materes , PASTON,I,275.091.2608

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is callid right feythfull and trosty to his frendes +tat trost
hym . PASTON,I,275.091.2609

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as it is reported here he may do myche wyth the Kyng and +te lordes
, PASTON,I,275.091.2610

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is seid +tat he may do myche wyth hem +tat be yowr aduersaryes .
PASTON,I,275.091.2611

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +terfore , for Goddes sake , if ye may haue his gode wille forsake
it not . PASTON,I,275.091.2612

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also it is thought the more lerned men that ye haue of yowr owyn
contre` of yowr councell the more wurchepful it is to you .
PASTON,I,275.091.2613

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Callys brothere sent a letter heder to you which I send you be
Dawbeney . PASTON,I,275.091.2614

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wuld , if it pleasid you , that he myght haue an answere there-of as
sone as ye may . PASTON,I,275.091.2615

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , me semyth , savyng yowre better avyse , +tat it were wele do
+tat ye sent a letter to Yepeswhich to them +tat were John Pampyngges
borwys , thankyng them for there gode will , letyng hem wete +tat thei
shall be savyd harmles ; PASTON,I,275.091.2616

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for , as I herd say , thei marveyle that thei here no word from you ,
ner that he come not a-geyn to saue them harmles .
PASTON,I,275.091.2617

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , if ye be at home this Cristmes it were wele do ye shuld do
puruey a garnyssh or tweyn of pewter vesshell , ij basones and ij
heweres and xij candilstikes , PASTON,I,275.091.2618

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye haue to few of any of thes to serue this place .
PASTON,I,275.091.2619

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am a-ferd <P_I,276> to purvey mych stuffe in this place till we be
suerrere +ter-of . PASTON,I,276.091.2620

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} the wode at Mauby , I shall haue heder but litill
till ye come home , +tat ye may chese where ye wull haue it .
PASTON,I,276.091.2621

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope it shall not be longe till ye come home , be the grace of God .
PASTON,I,276.091.2622

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} othire tydynges of +tis countre` , Dawbeney shall
tell you . PASTON,I,276.091.2623

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you +tat ye wull vochesaf to be gode mayster to Loveday , and
+tat he may haue mony of you to bye such thynges as be necessary for
hym , PASTON,I,276.091.2624

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wote wele he shuld go right evill or he shuld compleyne .
PASTON,I,276.091.2625

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if it pleasid you to purvey for hym +tat he myght be in sum gode
seruyce ye myght do gret almesse vp-on hym , PASTON,I,276.091.2626

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so ye haue do be-fore this tyme , which I trost God shall reward
right wele . PASTON,I,276.091.2627

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trinyte` haue you in his blissid kepyng .
PASTON,I,276.091.2628

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_091:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Thursday next after Sent Andrew . Be yowr M. P.
PASTON,I,276.091.2629

<Q_PAS_C_1461_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_092> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,276>

{ED:167._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_29_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull husbond Jonhn Paston be thys delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,276.092.2630

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomande me to yow .
PASTON,I,276.092.2631

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat I receyvyd the lettyr +tat ye sent me by a man
of Seynt Mychell parysche on Fryday next aftyr the Consepcion of Owyr
$Lady , PASTON,I,276.092.2632

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a-non as I had it I sent my modyr the lettyr be-cause of swyche
materys as longyd to hyr in +tat same lettyr ; PASTON,I,276.092.2633

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sythyn +tat tyme I kowd gete no massanger to London but if I wold
haue sent by the scheryfys men , PASTON,I,276.092.2634

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I knew nowthyr her mastyr ner them nor whedyr they wer well wyllyng
to yow or not , PASTON,I,276.092.2635

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther-for me thowt it had be no sendyng of no lettyr by hem .
PASTON,I,276.092.2636

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for swyche materys as John Geney and Jamys Gresham spak to me of
, I sped hem as well as I kowd ; PASTON,I,276.092.2637

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they bothe told me +tat ye schold veryly a ben at home be-for
Crystmas , PASTON,I,276.092.2638

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that causyd me that I wrot not to yow non answer .
PASTON,I,276.092.2639

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For if I had know +tat ye schold not haue ben at home <P_I,277> er thys
tyme I schold a sent some man to yow , PASTON,I,277.092.2640

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thynk ryth longe tyll I haue some god tydyngys fro yow .
PASTON,I,277.092.2641

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fer me +tat it is not well wyth yow +tat ye be fro home at thys good
tyme . PASTON,I,277.092.2642

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And many of yowyr contre`-men thynk the same , PASTON,I,277.092.2643

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but they be hertty j-now to yow ward PASTON,I,277.092.2644

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and full fayn wold her god tydyngys fro yow . PASTON,I,277.092.2645

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Ther wer no byllys put to the scherryf at hys beyng her , ner non opyn
playnt mad that I <em> ... </em> of no person be-cawse they had so
lyttyll knowlage of hys comeyng in-to thys contre` .
PASTON,I,277.092.2646

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He demenyd hym full <em> ... </em> and jndeferently , as it was told me
, PASTON,I,277.092.2647

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Yeluerton mad a fayir sermone at the sesschyonys
PASTON,I,277.092.2648

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat <em> it was </em> so that the Kyng was informyd +tat ther
was a ryotows felawschep in thys contre` , wer-for the Kyng was gretly
dysplesyd ; and +tat the Kyng vndyrstood well +tat it was not of ther
owne mosyon boot of cownselyng of one or ij +tat ben evyll dysposyd
folk . PASTON,I,277.092.2649

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also he seyd if ony man wold put vp ony byllys of compleyntys of
ony extorcion or brybery don be ony men of thys contre` to them they
wer redy to receyue them and to make a-kord be-twyx hem ; and if they
cowd not mak the acord , +tat than they $schold tak the byllys to the
Kyng and he schold set hem thorow . PASTON,I,277.092.2650

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the scheryfe seyd that he wold h <em> ... </em> them that wold
compleyne and dorste not for fer put vp ther byllys .
PASTON,I,277.092.2651

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Yelverton preyid the scheryfe +tat if he had forget onythyng that
the Kynge seyd to hem at ther departtyng , +tat he wold $rehers $yt
{TEXT:rehersyt} ther . PASTON,I,277.092.2652

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And than the scheryf seyd +tat he had seyd all that he remembryd saue
only the Kyng $rehersyd to hem <em> ... </em> ij personys , Syr Thomas
Todenham and Heydon ; PASTON,I,277.092.2653

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than Yeluerton seyd , ' A , that is trowthe ' , as thow ... that
... Dame told me that he spak wyth the scheryfe aftyrward and let hym
haue $knowlage <em> of the </em> rewylle $and demenyng of thys contre`
and what cawsyd the pepyll for to grwge a-yens swyche folkys as had the
rewyll be-fortyme ; PASTON,I,277.092.2654

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he was pleyne to hym in many thyngys , as he told me ,
PASTON,I,277.092.2655

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he fond the scheryfe ryth pleyne ayen to hym and well dysposyd in
that +tat myth growe to the welfar of the scher . PASTON,I,277.092.2656

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The scheryfe seyd he vndyr-stood by swyche in-for-macion as he had syne
he came in-to thys contre` that they had not all gydyd hem well +tat
had the rewyill of thys contre` be-for , PASTON,I,277.092.2657

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther-for he seyd feythfully , and swore by gret othys that he wold
nowthyr spar for good nor loue nor fer , but +tat he wold let the Kynge
haue knowlage of the trowthe and +tat he wold do asmyche for <P_I,278>
thys contre` as he cowd or myth do to the welfare ther-of ,
PASTON,I,278.092.2658

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat he lekyd the contre` ryth well . PASTON,I,278.092.2659

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And John of Dame seyd if the contre` had had knowlage of hys comyng ,
he schold haue had byllys of compleyntys and knowlage of myche more
thyng than he myth haue knowlage of that tyme , ore myth haue be-cause
of schort $abydyng ; PASTON,I,278.092.2660

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyd he wold not be longe owt of thys contre` .
PASTON,I,278.092.2661

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also Yeluerton seyd opynly in the seschyons they to come downe for
+te same cause to set a rewyll in the contre` . PASTON,I,278.092.2662

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet he seyd he woste well +tat the Kynge myth full evyll haue
for-bor ony of hem bothe , PASTON,I,278.092.2663

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as for a knyth there was non in the Kyngys howse +tat myth werse a
be for-bore than +te scheryfe myth at that tyme . PASTON,I,278.092.2664

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue myche mor to wryt to yow of than I may haue leyser at thys tyme
, PASTON,I,278.092.2665

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I troste to God +tat ye schall be at home yowyr-selfe in hast ,
PASTON,I,278.092.2666

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than ye schall knowe all . PASTON,I,278.092.2667

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And but if ye come home in haste , I schall send to yow ;
PASTON,I,278.092.2668

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray yow hertly but if ye come home send me word in hast how ye
do . PASTON,I,278.092.2669

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trinyte` haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,278.092.2670

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Seynt Thomas Day in Crystmas . By yowyr Margaret
Paston PASTON,I,278.092.2671

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here was an evyll rewlyd felawschep yestyrday at the schere ,
PASTON,I,278.092.2672

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_092:M4:1461:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and fard ryth fowle wyth +te vndyr-scheryfe , and on-resnably as I herd
sey . PASTON,I,278.092.2673

<Q_PAS_C_1462_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_093> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,278>

{ED:168._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_7_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull $husbond John Paston be thys delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,278.093.2674

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,278.093.2675

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat I sent yow a lettyr by Barneys man of Wychyngham
wyche was wretyn on Seynt Thomas Day in Crystmas ,
PASTON,I,278.093.2676

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I had no tydyngys nor lettyr of yow sene the weke befor Crystmas ,
wher-of I mervayle sore . PASTON,I,278.093.2677

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fere me it is not well wyth yow be-cawse ye came not home or sent er
thys tyme . PASTON,I,278.093.2678

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I <P_I,279> hopyd verily ye schold haue ben at home by Twelthe at +te
ferthest . PASTON,I,279.093.2679

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow hertly +tat ye wole wychesaue to send me word how ye do as
hastly as ye may , PASTON,I,279.093.2680

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my hert schall nevyr be in ese tyll I haue tydyngys fro yow .
PASTON,I,279.093.2681

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pepyll of this contre` begynyth to wax wyld , PASTON,I,279.093.2682

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is seyd her +tat my lord of Clarans and the Dwek of Suthfolk and
serteyn jwgys wyth hem schold come down and syt on syche pepyll as be
noysyd ryotous in thys contre` . PASTON,I,279.093.2683

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also it is seyd her +tat ther is retornyd a newe rescwe vp-on +tat
that was do at the last scher . PASTON,I,279.093.2684

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose swyche talkyng comyth of false schrewys +tat wold mak a rwmor
in +tis contre` . PASTON,I,279.093.2685

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll seyth her +tat they had leuyr go vp hole to the Kyng and
compleyne of siche fals $schrewys as they haue be wrongyd by a-for than
they schold be compleynyd of wyth-owt cause and be hangyd at ther owne
dorys . PASTON,I,279.093.2686

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In good feyth men fer sor her of a comone rysyng but if a bettyr remedy
may be had to pese the pepyll in hast , and that ther be sent swyche
downe to tak a rewyll as the pepyll hathe a fantsy in that wole be
jndeferent . PASTON,I,279.093.2687

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They loue not in no wyse the Dwke of Sowthfolk nor hys modyr .
PASTON,I,279.093.2688

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They sey that all the tretourys and extorsyonerys of thys contre` be
meyntynyd by them and by syche as they get to them wyth her goodys , to
that intent to meynten suche extorsyon style as hathe be do by suche as
hathe had the rewyll vndyr them be-for-tyme . PASTON,I,279.093.2689

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Men wene and the Dwke of Sowthfolk come ther schall be a schrewd reuell
, but if ther come odyr that be bettyr belovyd than he is her .
PASTON,I,279.093.2690

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll feryth hem myche the mor to be hurt be-cause +tat ye and my
cosyn Barney come not home . PASTON,I,279.093.2691

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They sey they wot well it is not well wyth yow , PASTON,I,279.093.2692

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it be not well wyth yow they sey they wot well they +tat wole do
yow wronge wole sone do them wronge , PASTON,I,279.093.2693

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that makyth them all-most mad . PASTON,I,279.093.2694

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God for hys holy mersy geue grace that ther may be set a good rewyll
and a sad in thys contre` in hast , PASTON,I,279.093.2695

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I herd nevyr sey of so myche robry and manslawt in thys contre` as
is now wyth-in a lytyll tyme . PASTON,I,279.093.2696

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for gadyryng of mony I sey nevyr a werse seson ,
PASTON,I,279.093.2697

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Rychard Calle seyth he can get but lytyll in substans of that is
owyng , nowthyr of yowyr lyuelod nor of Fastolfys .
PASTON,I,279.093.2698

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And John Paston seyth they that may pay best , they pay werst .
PASTON,I,279.093.2699

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They fare as thow they hopyd to haue a newe werd .
PASTON,I,279.093.2700

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Blyssyd Trinite` haue yow in hys kepyng PASTON,I,279.093.2701

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send vs good tydyngys of yow . PASTON,I,279.093.2702

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yeluerton is a good thredbare frend for yow and for odyr <P_I,280> in
thys contre` , as it is told me . PASTON,I,280.093.2703

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_093:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on the Thorsday nex aftyr Twelthe . By yowyr Margaret
Paston PASTON,I,280.093.2704

<Q_PAS_C_1462_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_094> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,280>

{ED:169._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_27_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull husbond , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,280.094.2705

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat Perse was delyueryd owt $of preson by the
generall pardon that the Kynge hathe grantyd , whyche was opynly
proclamyd in the gyld-hall . PASTON,I,280.094.2706

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A-none as he was delyueryd he cam hedyr to me , God wote in an evyll
plyte , PASTON,I,280.094.2707

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he desyiryd me wepyng +tat I wold be hys good mastres and to be
mene to yow to be hys good mastyr , PASTON,I,280.094.2708

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and swore sor +tat he was nevyr defawty in +tat ye haue thowte hym
defawty in . PASTON,I,280.094.2709

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd +tat if ther wer ony coyne in the cofyr +tat was at Wylliam
Tauernerys it was ther wyth-owt hys knowlage , PASTON,I,280.094.2710

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for hys mastyr wold neuyr lat hym se what was in +tat cofyr ;
PASTON,I,280.094.2711

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde me +tat the keyis wer sent to Thomas Holler by Mastyr John
Smyth . PASTON,I,280.094.2712

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What Holler leyd in or took owte he wot not , as he sweryth .
PASTON,I,280.094.2713

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He offyrd me to be rewlyd as ye and I wold haue hym ,
PASTON,I,280.094.2714

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if I wold comand hym to go a-geyn to preson , whedyr I wold to +te
castyll or to the gyld-hall , he wold obey my comandment ;
PASTON,I,280.094.2715

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seth that he cam of hys owne fre wyll wyth-owt ony comandment of
ony man or desyir . PASTON,I,280.094.2716

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I seyd I wold not send hym ageyn to preson so +tat he wold a-byde yowyr
rewyll when ye came home , PASTON,I,280.094.2717

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he is her wyth me PASTON,I,280.094.2718

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schall be tyll ye send me word how ye wole +tat I do wyth hym ;
wher-for I pray yow +tat ye wole let me haue knowlage in hast how ye
wole +tat I do wyth hym . PASTON,I,280.094.2719

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue spok wyth John Dame and Playter for the lettyr
testymonyall , PASTON,I,280.094.2720

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and John Dame hathe promysyd to get it , PASTON,I,280.094.2721

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Playter schall bryng it to yow to London . PASTON,I,280.094.2722

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<P_I,281> Item , I haue purveyd yow of a man that schall be her in
Barsamys sted and ye wole , the wyche can bettyr cherysche yowyr wood
bothe-3 in fellyng and fensyng ther-of than Barsam can ;
PASTON,I,281.094.2723

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he schall mak yow as many hyrdyllys as ye ned for yowyr fold of
yowyr owne wood at Drayton , PASTON,I,281.094.2724

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schall tak as lytyll to hys wagys as Barsam dothe .
PASTON,I,281.094.2725

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he is holdyn a trew man . PASTON,I,281.094.2726

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Playter schall tell yow of a woman +tat compleynyd to the Dwk of
Sowthefolk of yow , PASTON,I,281.094.2727

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the $seyd Playter schall tell yow of the demenyng and answeryng of
+te scheryfe for yow , and also of the demenyng of the seyd Dwke and of
othir materys wyche wer to longe mater to put in wryttyn .
PASTON,I,281.094.2728

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll of thys contre` be ryth glad +tat the day yed wyth yow on
Monday as it ded . PASTON,I,281.094.2729

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye wer nevyr so welcome in-to Norfolk as ye schall be when ye come home
, I trowe . PASTON,I,281.094.2730

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blyssyd Trynyte` haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,281.094.2731

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Wednysday next aftyr Seynt Angnet the fyrst . By
yowyr M. P. PASTON,I,281.094.2732

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Richard Calle told me that he hathe sent you a answer of all
erandys +tat ye wold shuld be do to Ser Thomas Howes .
PASTON,I,281.094.2733

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser Thomas Howis cam nowther to me nor sent syn +tat he cam home from
London . PASTON,I,281.094.2734

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Will Worcetre was at me in Cristemes at Heylysdon ,
PASTON,I,281.094.2735

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told +tat he spak wyth you dyuers tymys at London +te last terme
PASTON,I,281.094.2736

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me +tat he hopyd +tat ye wolle be hys good master ,
PASTON,I,281.094.2737

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd he hopyd ye shuld have non other cause but for to be hys god
maister . PASTON,I,281.094.2738

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope , and so do my moder and my cosyn Clere , +tat he wolle do well
j-nowe so +tat he be fayre fare wyth . PASTON,I,281.094.2739

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dawbeney and Playter avise me to lete Peers go at large , and to take a
promys of hym to com to me a-mong vn-to your comyng hom ;
PASTON,I,281.094.2740

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_094:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in the mene while his demenyng may be knowyn and espyed in mo
thyngys . PASTON,I,281.094.2741

<Q_PAS_C_1462_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_095> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,282>

{ED:170._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull husbond John Paston be +tis delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,282.095.2742

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat John Wellys and hys brodyr told me thys nyth
+tat the Kyng lay at Cambryge as yestyr-nyth to Sandwyche ward ,
PASTON,I,282.095.2743

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther is gret dyuysyon be-twyx the lordys and the schypmen ther that
causyth hym to goo thedyr to se a remedye ther-for .
PASTON,I,282.095.2744

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thank God that John Paston yed non erst forthe ,
PASTON,I,282.095.2745

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I trust to God all schall be do er he comyth .
PASTON,I,282.095.2746

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And it is told me that Syr John Howard is lek to lese hys hed .
PASTON,I,282.095.2747

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If it plese yow to send to the seyd Wellys he schall send yow mor
tydyngys than I may wryt at thys tyme . PASTON,I,282.095.2748

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,282.095.2749

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast at Thetforthe at xj of the clok in +te nyth the same day
I departyd fro yow . PASTON,I,282.095.2750

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thank Pampyng of hys good wyll , and them +tat wer cause of changyng
of my hors , PASTON,I,282.095.2751

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they ded me a bettyr torne than I wend they had do ;
PASTON,I,282.095.2752

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schall aqwyt them a-nothyr day and I maye . PASTON,I,282.095.2753

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_095:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yowyr M. P. PASTON,I,282.095.2754

<Q_PAS_C_1462_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_096> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,282>

{ED:171._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_18_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wurschipful maistre John Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,282.096.2755

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaunde me vnto you . PASTON,I,282.096.2756

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesith it you to witte that I haue spoken wyth Furbuschour and other
of the matre that ye spake to me off , PASTON,I,282.096.2757

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they haue promysed me to be as feytheffull in it as it where for
hem-selfe . PASTON,I,282.096.2758

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I haue <P_I,283> spoken wyth my modre and seide to here as ye
desired me to doo ; PASTON,I,283.096.2759

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche seide sche knewe the massache weele j-nowe be-fore be other
persones , in like wice as ye comaunded hem to sey to her ,
PASTON,I,283.096.2760

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche seide she wode fayne that ye dede weele , what so euer ye sey
, and fille forthe in other talkyng . PASTON,I,283.096.2761

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me semethe che is displesed that ye came not to her or than ye roode
foorthe . PASTON,I,283.096.2762

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I schall telle you more whan that ye come home . PASTON,I,283.096.2763

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Denys wyff whas at me PASTON,I,283.096.2764

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desired me that I schulde sende to you and desire you that che
myght haue knowleche from you how ye woll that sche schall doo wyth her
matre . PASTON,I,283.096.2765

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche seithe her brother and other of her frendes thynke that she
schulde vp to London and calle vppon her matre there ,
PASTON,I,283.096.2766

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but she seithe pleynly sche woll nought doo therin wythoute your advice
. PASTON,I,283.096.2767

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It whas toolde me that Bacon and Gonnour whas here to speke wyth me for
the matre that Bacon spake to you of , PASTON,I,283.096.2768

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at that tyme I whas at Norweche PASTON,I,283.096.2769

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I herde no more $of hem sethen . PASTON,I,283.096.2770

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my brother William , he is not purposed to come to London
tyll aftre Pentecost , PASTON,I,283.096.2771

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my brother Clement is purposed to come forward on Monday or on
Twesday next comyng at the ferthest . PASTON,I,283.096.2772

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nomore at this tyme , but the blissed Trinite` preserue you .
PASTON,I,283.096.2773

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wreten the xviij day of Maij . PASTON,I,283.096.2774

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your Margaret Paston PASTON,I,283.096.2775

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey you that ye woll wetesafe to remembre Johane Gayne matre , and
that ye woll take John Paston +tat he remembre you of it ,
PASTON,I,283.096.2776

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_096:M4:1462:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Dawbeney and Pampyng woll sone for-gete it . PASTON,I,283.096.2777

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_097> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,295>

{ED:180._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_10_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my maystere John Paston the oldest be thys delyueryd in hast
. </font> PASTON,I,295.097.2778

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull husbond , I recomaund me vn-to you .
PASTON,I,295.097.2779

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Please $it {TEXT:Pleysed} you to wyte that on Wensday last passyd
Dabeney , Naunton , Wykys , and John Love werre at Drayton for to speke
wyth youre tenauntys there , to put hem in confort and for to aske
money of hem also . PASTON,I,295.097.2780

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Pyrs Waryn , otherwyse callyd Pyrs at Sloth , whych ys a flykeryng
felowe and a besy wyth Maister Phylyp and the bayly of Cosshay , he had
a plowe goyng in youre lond in Drayton , PASTON,I,295.097.2781

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there youre seyd seruauntys at that tyme toke hys plowe-ware , that
ys to say ij marys , PASTON,I,295.097.2782

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and broght hem to Haylysdon , PASTON,I,295.097.2783

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there they be yet . PASTON,I,295.097.2784

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on the next mornyng aftere Maister Phylyp and the baylly of Cosshay
com to Haylysdon wyth a grete nombere of pepell , that ys to say
viij=xx= men and more in harnysse , PASTON,I,295.097.2785

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there toke <P_I,296> from the parsouns plowe ij hors , prise iiij
marc. , and ij hors of Thomas Stermyns plowe , prise xl s. , sayng to
hem that there was taken a playnt a-yenst hem in the hunderd by the
seyd Pyrs for takyng of the forseyd plowarre at Drayton , and but thay
wold be bond to com to Drayton on Tewysday next comyng to awnswere to
such maters as $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sayd to them there they shold
not haue there bestys a-yen ; whych they refusyd to do on-to the tyme
that they had an awnswere from you . PASTON,I,296.097.2786

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so they led the bestys forth to Drayton , and from Drayton forth to
Cosshay . PASTON,I,296.097.2787

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the same aftere-non folwyng the parson of Haylesdon send hys man to
Drayton wyth Stermyn for to speke wyth Maister Phylyp , to know a way
yf they shuld haue a yen there catell or not . PASTON,I,296.097.2788

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Maister Phylyp awnsweryd them yf that they wold bryng hom there
destresse a-yen +tat was taken of Pyrs Waryn , that then he wold
delyuer hem thers , or els not . PASTON,I,296.097.2789

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he lete hem playnly wyte that yf ye or any of youre seruauntys toke
any dystresse in Drayton , that were but the valew of an hen , they
wold com to Haylesdon and take there the valew of an ox there-fore ;
and yf thay $can $not {TEXT:cannot} take the valew therof there , that
then they wyll do breke youre tenauntys howsys in Haylesdon and take as
moch as they cowd fynd there-in . PASTON,I,296.097.2790

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf they be lettyd ther-of - wych shall neuer lye in youre powere
for to do , for the Duck of Suffolk ys abyll to kype dayly in hys hows
more men then Dabeney hadde herys in hys hede yf hym lyst ,
PASTON,I,296.097.2791

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for Dabeney he ys a lewde felow PASTON,I,296.097.2792

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} seruyd here-after ,
PASTON,I,296.097.2793

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wold that he were hyre - PASTON,I,296.097.2794

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therfore he seyd yf ye take vppon you to lette them so forto do ,
that then they wold goo in-to any lyflode that ye had in Norffolk or
Suffolk and to take a destresse in lyke wysse as they wold do at
Haylysdon . PASTON,I,296.097.2795

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And othere awnswerre cowde they non gyte , PASTON,I,296.097.2796

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they departyd . PASTON,I,296.097.2797

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Calle axid the parson and Stermyn yf they wold take an accyon
for there catell , PASTON,I,296.097.2798

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the parson seyd he was agyd and syklow PASTON,I,296.097.2799

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wold not be trobelyd herafter ; PASTON,I,296.097.2800

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he sayd he had leuer lose hys catell , PASTON,I,296.097.2801

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he wyst well yf he dyde so he shold be endytyd and so vexid wyth
hem that he shold neuer haue rest by hem . PASTON,I,296.097.2802

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Stermyn , he sayd at that tyme he durst not take no sute a-yenst
hem nothere , PASTON,I,296.097.2803

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but aftere that Richard was rydyn I spake wyth hym
PASTON,I,296.097.2804

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayd he wold be rulyd as ye wold haue hym ;
PASTON,I,296.097.2805

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I fond hym ryght herty and wel dysposyd in that matere .
PASTON,I,296.097.2806

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he is bownde to you an obligacyon of x li. sengyll wyth-outen
condycyon that <P_I,297> he shall a-byde by such accyons as $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} takyn by youre advyse in hys name . Wherfore I haue send
you a tytelyng therof in a byll closyd herin . PASTON,I,297.097.2807

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I axyd Thomas Gryne avyse when they had take the dystresse hyre ,
PASTON,I,297.097.2808

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he avysyd me that herre destresse shold be delyueryd a-yen to them
so that we my+gt haue a-yen ourys ; PASTON,I,297.097.2809

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and me thoght it was non awnswere after myn entent ,
PASTON,I,297.097.2810

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wold not therof PASTON,I,297.097.2811

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but axyd avyse of Skypwyth what hym thoght that were best to doo
there-in and most wyrshypfull . PASTON,I,297.097.2812

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyd by hys avyse that I shold send to you in al the hast that
{in}_P I cowde , and that ye shuld fynde a mene therfore a-bove by the
avyse of youre lernyd counsell to haue a wrytte from a-bove for to
delyuer yt , of lesse then the vndershyrff werre otherre wysse dysposyd
to you then we fynde hym ; PASTON,I,297.097.2813

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it symyth that he ys made of the othere party .
PASTON,I,297.097.2814

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the replevyn for the cc shype ys not yet servyd .
PASTON,I,297.097.2815

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Skypwyth thynkyth that ye my+gt haue a wrytte both-1 fore the shype and
the destresse now taken at Haylysdon . PASTON,I,297.097.2816

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you that ye wyll send word in hast how $ye woll that we doo in
thys maters . PASTON,I,297.097.2817

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Skypwyth went wyth me to the Byshop of Norwych , PASTON,I,297.097.2818

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I lyte hym haue knowlych of the ryotous and evyll dysposicyon of
Maister Phylyp , desyryng hys lordshyp that he wold see a mene $that a
correccyon my+gt be hadde , in as moch as he was chyf justice of the
peas and hys ordynare , and in asmoch as he was a prest and vndere hys
correccyon that he shold haue vnderstondyng of hys dysposicyon ;
PASTON,I,297.097.2819

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I made Dabeney to tell hym all the matere how it was .
PASTON,I,297.097.2820

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he seyd he wold send for hym and speke wyth hym ,
PASTON,I,297.097.2821

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me of dyuers thyngys of the demenyng of hym wherby I
vnderstode he lykyd not by hys dysposicyon nor demenyng in thys mater
nor in no nothyre , PASTON,I,297.097.2822

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it symyd he had provyd hym what he ys in othere maters .
PASTON,I,297.097.2823

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord seyd to me that he wold ryght fayn that ye had a gode
conclusyon in youre maters , PASTON,I,297.097.2824

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd by hys trouth that he ought you ryght gode wyll and wold ryght
fayn that ye were com hom , PASTON,I,297.097.2825

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd to me that it shold be a grete confort to youre frendys and
neghbors and that youre presens shold do more a-mongys hem than a c of
youre men shold do in youre absens , PASTON,I,297.097.2826

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and more youre enmys wold ferre to do a-yens you yf ye myght be at home
and steryng a-mongys hem ; PASTON,I,297.097.2827

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd full playnly in meny othere thyngys it were to longe to wryte
at thys time , as Skypwyth shall tell you when he comy+gt to you .
PASTON,I,297.097.2828

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you thanke Skypwyth of hys gode wyll , PASTON,I,297.097.2829

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he was ryght well wyllyd to go wyth me and yeve me hys avyse .
PASTON,I,297.097.2830

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me thynkyth he ys ry+gt well wyllyd to you . PASTON,I,297.097.2831

<P_I,298>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I pray you send hastely word how that ye wyll that we be gydyd
wyth thys place , PASTON,I,298.097.2832

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as it ys told me it ys lyke to stond in as grete jupardy in hast as
{in}_P othere don . PASTON,I,298.097.2833

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On Thursday al day there were kypt in Draton logge in-to lx persons ,
PASTON,I,298.097.2834

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet , as it ys told me , there be wyth-in dayly and ny+gtly in-to a
xvj or xx persons . PASTON,I,298.097.2835

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it ys told me that Thomas Elys of Norwych , whych nowe ys chosyn
mayere , seyd at Drayton that yf my lord of Suffolk nede a c men he
wold purvey hym ther-of , PASTON,I,298.097.2836

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf any men of the town wold go to Paston he wold do lay hem faste
in preson . PASTON,I,298.097.2837

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold youre men $myght haue a supersedias owte of the Chauncere` and
be ovte of the dangere of there men here , PASTON,I,298.097.2838

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you $let $not {TEXT:letnot} Wyll Naunton be for-yete
there-in . PASTON,I,298.097.2839

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Call and othere can tell you of hys demenyng ,
PASTON,I,298.097.2840

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you that ye be not dysplesyd for hys a-bydyng wyth me ,
PASTON,I,298.097.2841

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in gode feth he hath ben a grete confort to me syn ye departyd hens
, as I wyll lete you wyte herafter . PASTON,I,298.097.2842

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you yf hys brothere com to you for a relesse of hys londe ,
lette hym non haue on-to the tyme that ye see hys faderys wyll , the
whych I wote where it ys , PASTON,I,298.097.2843

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat it like you to desyre hym to be gode brothere to hym .
PASTON,I,298.097.2844

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue left John Paston the oldere at Castere to kype the place
there , as Richard can tell you , PASTON,I,298.097.2845

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I had levere , and it pleasyd you , to be captenesse here then at
Castere . PASTON,I,298.097.2846

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yet I was nothyng purposyd to a-byde here when $I com from hom but for
a day or ij , PASTON,I,298.097.2847

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I shall a-byde here tyll I here tydyngys from you .
PASTON,I,298.097.2848

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it ys told me that the Duck of Suffolk hath boght , or shal by
in hast , the ry+gt that on Bryghtylhed hath in Haylesdon , &c .
PASTON,I,298.097.2849

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the evydens that Watkyn Shypdam hadd , he delyueryd to
hys wyffe a box enselyd wyth hys owyn seall by hys lyffe , for to be
delyueryd to you , whych box she delyueryd to Richard Call vndere the
same seall aftere hys dessesse . PASTON,I,298.097.2850

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard can tell you of the gydyng of the cofere , wyth othere bokys
that were at Shypdams . PASTON,I,298.097.2851

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for all youre othere evydens , ye ther not feere as fore the
sy+gt of hem , PASTON,I,298.097.2852

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for there hath nor shall no man sen hem tyll ye com hom .
PASTON,I,298.097.2853

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can not fynd that ye send to me fore to haue ovte of the rolle .
PASTON,I,298.097.2854

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I hyre no word of Colte of New Castell , nor of no nothere from
you that shold haue youre malte ; PASTON,I,298.097.2855

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue spoken to the vikere , John Rus , and Robert Botelere to
help for to sell youre malte , PASTON,I,298.097.2856

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as we can do there-in we shall send you word .
PASTON,I,298.097.2857

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The provest of Cambrygge ys com in-to thys contray ,
PASTON,I,298.097.2858

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Dabeney shall receve of hym that longyth to you on Monday or
Tewysday , PASTON,I,298.097.2859

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he shall haue hyt delyueryd accordyng to youre wrytyng .
PASTON,I,298.097.2860

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my modere told me that she thynkyth ryght strange that she may
not haue the profectys of Clyre ys place in peasabyll wyse for you .
PASTON,I,298.097.2861

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She seyt <P_I,299> it ys hers PASTON,I,299.097.2862

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she hath payd most therfore yet , PASTON,I,299.097.2863

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she sayth she wyll haue the profectys therof PASTON,I,299.097.2864

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ells she wyll make more folk to speke therof . PASTON,I,299.097.2865

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She seyth she knowyt not what ryght ne titell that ye haue ther-in but
yf ye luste to trobell wyth herre , PASTON,I,299.097.2866

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that shold be no wyrshep to you ; PASTON,I,299.097.2867

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she sayth she $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} there thys somer and repayre
the housyng ther . PASTON,I,299.097.2868

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In gode feyth I hyre moch langage of the demenyng be-twene you and
herre . PASTON,I,299.097.2869

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold ryght fayn , and soo wold many moo of youre frendys , that it
were otherwyse by-twene you then it ys , PASTON,I,299.097.2870

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf it were I hope ye shold haue the betere spyde in all othere
maters . PASTON,I,299.097.2871

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God be youre gode spyde in all youre maters and yef you grace to
haue a gode conclusyon of hem in haste , PASTON,I,299.097.2872

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thys ys to wyry a lyffe to a-byde for you and all youre .
PASTON,I,299.097.2873

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten in haste at Haylysdon the x day of May . PASTON,I,299.097.2874

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cause that I send to you this hastely ys to haue an awnswere in
haste from you . PASTON,I,299.097.2875

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_097:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yourys , M. P. PASTON,I,299.097.2876

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_098> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,299>

{ED:181._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_13_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull mayster John Paston the oldest be +tis
delyueryd in haste . </font> PASTON,I,299.098.2877

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I recomaund me , &c . PASTON,I,299.098.2878

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf it pleasyd you I wold ryght fayn that John Jenney werre putt ovte of
the comyssyon of the peas and that my brothere Wyll Lumner were set yn
<P_I,300> in hys stede , PASTON,I,300.098.2879

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for me thinkyth it were ryght necessere that there were such a won in
that countray that oght you gode wyll , PASTON,I,300.098.2880

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I knowe verely he owyth you ryght gode wyll . PASTON,I,300.098.2881

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was wyth me at Castere but late . PASTON,I,300.098.2882

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf there be made any labour for Doctour Alyn to be justice of the peas
, I pray you for Godys sake let it be lettyd yf ye may ,
PASTON,I,300.098.2883

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he wyll take to moch apon hym yf he werre . PASTON,I,300.098.2884

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $wold $not {TEXT:woldnot} that he were remembyrd of youre parte but
yf he be spokyn of of othere partys . PASTON,I,300.098.2885

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He ys ryght grete wyth Maister Phylyp Lyp+gate and the baylyff of
Cosshay . PASTON,I,300.098.2886

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf it please yow to wyte that Wykys dyde a-reste on Wyll Bylmyn of
Norwych , as Pampyng can enforme you of , for sertyn harnys wych he
delyueryd hym at Newcastell for to cary to Yarmoth by watere and there
to delyuer it to hym a-yen , whych harnys he kypt styll and may not be
delyueryd ; and now ther ys com down an habeas corpus for hym , and
most appyre at the Comyn Place on Fryday next comyng . Wher-fore yf it
pleased you that there myght be taken an accyon in Wykys name of
trespas , vndere such forme as there may be a capias a-wardyd a-yenst
hys comyng , PASTON,I,300.098.2887

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for aftere that he was arestyd he dyde Dabeney to be arestyd for
mayntenyng . PASTON,I,300.098.2888

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the harnys , Wykys delyueryd it to hym the x day of Januare
the ij yere of Kyng E. in Pylgryme Strete at Newcastell :
PASTON,I,300.098.2889

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In primis , a payre brygandyrs , a salet , a bore spere , a bawe ,
xviij arwys , ij payre polrondys , a standerd of mayle , a payre slyvys
of plate to the valew of v marc . PASTON,I,300.098.2890

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , at the reuerens of God , slowth not youre maters nowe ,
PASTON,I,300.098.2891

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and make an yend of hem PASTON,I,300.098.2892

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
other puruey you to make hym or to marre hem in haste ,
PASTON,I,300.098.2893

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thys ys to orybyll a coste and trobell that ye haue and haue had
for to endure any whyle , PASTON,I,300.098.2894

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it ys grete heuenys to youre frendys and welwyllers , and grete joy
and confort to youre ennemyes . PASTON,I,300.098.2895

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord of Norwych seyd to me that he wold not ha byden the sorow and
trobell that ye haue a-byden to wyn all Ser John Fastolf ys gode .
PASTON,I,300.098.2896

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And God be your spyde in all yore maters . PASTON,I,300.098.2897

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at Haylesdon the xiij day of May . PASTON,I,300.098.2898

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youre M. P. PASTON,I,300.098.2899

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_098:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thynk ryght long to hyre tydyngys tyll I haue $tydyngys from you .
PASTON,I,300.098.2900

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_099> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,301>

{ED:182._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_20_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull husbond John Paston by thys $delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,301.099.2901

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that on Satour-day last youre seruauntys Naunton
, Wykys , and othere were at Drayton and there toke a dystresse for the
rent and ferm that was to pay , to the nombere of lxxvij nete , and so
broght them hom to Hayllesdon and put hem in the pynfold , and so kept
hem styll there from the seyd Satour-day mornyng in-to Monday at iij at
clok at aftere-non . PASTON,I,301.099.2902

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Fyrst on the same Satour-day the tenauntys folwyd vppon ,
PASTON,I,301.099.2903

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyryd to haue there catell a-yen , PASTON,I,301.099.2904

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I awnnsweryd hem yf thay wold do pay such dewtys as they oght for
to pay to you , that then they shold haue there catell delyueryd a-yen
; or els , yf they were not a powere to pay redy money , that then they
to fynd suffycyant suerty to pay the money at such a day as they $myght
agrye wyth me , and there-to to be bonden to you by obligacyon .
PASTON,I,301.099.2905

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that they seyd they durst not for to take vppon hem for to be
bonden , PASTON,I,301.099.2906

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for money they had non for to pay at that tyme ;
PASTON,I,301.099.2907

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-fore I kept stylle the bestys . PASTON,I,301.099.2908

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Harleston was at Norwych PASTON,I,301.099.2909

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send for the tenauntys the seyd Satour-day at aftere-non ,
PASTON,I,301.099.2910

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there by the menys of the bayllyff of Coshay put the tenauntys in
such feere , sayng that yf they wold pay such dewtys , or ells for to
be bonden to pay , that then they wold put hem ovte of such londys as
they huld bondly of the lordshyp , and so to dystrayn hem and trobell
hem that they shold be wery of there part . PASTON,I,301.099.2911

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that put hem such feere that they drust nothere pay nor be bonden .
PASTON,I,301.099.2912

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on the sam day at evynsong tyme Harleston com to me to Haylesdon ,
desyryng me that I wold delyuer a-yen the seyd dystresse ,
PASTON,I,301.099.2913

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for such dystressys as they had taken here of youre tenauntys
shold be delyueryd a-yen in lyke forme . PASTON,I,301.099.2914

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I seyd I wold not delyuer hem soo , PASTON,I,301.099.2915

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told hem that I wold delyuer hem as ye wryten a-fore , and
othere-wyse not ; PASTON,I,301.099.2916

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and othere-wyse I wold not delyuer hem but by the form of lawe .
PASTON,I,301.099.2917

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And othere comynycacyon was had by-twene vs at that tyme of dyuers
maters whych were to long to wryte at thys tyme , PASTON,I,301.099.2918

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but ye shall haue knowlych therof in hast . PASTON,I,301.099.2919

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Monday next aftere at ix at clok there com Pynchemore to
Haylesdon wyth a replevyn whych was made in Harleston ys name as
<P_I,302> vnderstewerd of the Duche` , sayng that the bestys were taken
vppon the Duche` fee ; wherfore he desyryd me to mak hym $levery of the
seyd bestys so taken , PASTON,I,302.099.2920

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd I wold not delyuer hem on-to the tyme that I had examenyd
the tenauntys of the trough . PASTON,I,302.099.2921

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I send thedere Wykys wyth Pynchemore to vnderstond what they
wold say , PASTON,I,302.099.2922

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the tenauntys seyd that there was taken non vppon the Duche` at
there knowlych , saue only Pyrs Waryn the yongere PASTON,I,302.099.2923

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Payntere seyd that there catell was taken vppon the Duche` , whych
they con not prove by non record saue only by there awyn sayng ;
PASTON,I,302.099.2924

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so we wold not a-bey that replevyn , PASTON,I,302.099.2925

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they departyd . PASTON,I,302.099.2926

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at iij at clock at aftere-non Pynchemore com to Haylysdon a-yen
wyth ij men whych broght wyth hem a replevyn from the shyryff , whos
namys be John Whycherley and Robert Ranson , whych requyryd me by the
same replevyn to make them delyuery of the seyd bestys taken at Drayton
. PASTON,I,302.099.2927

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I , syyng the shyryffys replevyn vndere hys seall , bade my men
delyuer hem , PASTON,I,302.099.2928

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo they were delyueryd . PASTON,I,302.099.2929

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for all othere maters that ye haue wryten to $me of , I wyll
spede me to send you a awnswere as hastely as I may ,
PASTON,I,302.099.2930

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I may no leysour haue to wryte no more to you at thys tyme .
PASTON,I,302.099.2931

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssyd Trynyte` haue you in hys kypyng . PASTON,I,302.099.2932

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_099:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at Haylesdon the xx day <em> of May </em> . By yourys , M. P.
PASTON,I,302.099.2933

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_100> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,302>

{ED:183._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_27_MAY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull husbond John Paston be thys delyueryd in
haste . </font> PASTON,I,302.100.2934

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull hosbonde , I recomaunde me to you .
PASTON,I,302.100.2935

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that I haue send to Maister John Smyth and to
Maister Stephyn to haue a-vyse for the church of Drayton ,
PASTON,I,302.100.2936

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they send me word that there moste be had a comyssion from the
Byshop to calle in the person Flowredew , PASTON,I,302.100.2937

<P_I,303>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that most be proclaymyd in the church of Drayton iij tymes by a
deen ; PASTON,I,303.100.2938

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and aftere that , yff he appyre not wyth-in vj monthys aftere the fyrst
proclamacion , that then he for to be depryvyd and the patron to
present wham {to_present} he luste ; PASTON,I,303.100.2939

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ells youre presentacyon ys not sufficyant . PASTON,I,303.100.2940

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I haue so purveyd +tat a comyssyon ys hadde , and $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} seruyd as hastely as it may be . PASTON,I,303.100.2941

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for John Rysyng , I haue sent to hym to wyte the cause that he ys
not broght vp to London ; PASTON,I,303.100.2942

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayth that he callyd vppon the shyrff that he myght be had vp
for $to com to hys awnswere , PASTON,I,303.100.2943

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the shyrff told hym that he wold not bryng hym vp at hys owyn coste
. PASTON,I,303.100.2944

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And John Andres seyd that he wold not haue hym vp ,
PASTON,I,303.100.2945

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he ys styll in prison at Ipswych PASTON,I,303.100.2946

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so shall he be but yf ye canne fynde the betere mene for to haue
hym ovte . PASTON,I,303.100.2947

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent to hym xiij s. iiij d. to help hym-sylff there-wyth .
PASTON,I,303.100.2948

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He payth for hys borde wykely xx d. ; PASTON,I,303.100.2949

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Hopton and Smyth be there styll allso , PASTON,I,303.100.2950

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thay haue money y-nogh , where som euer that they haue it .
PASTON,I,303.100.2951

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rysyng dymeth that they haue confort of the othere party .
PASTON,I,303.100.2952

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I send you a copy of the warant that they were a-restyd by , &c .
PASTON,I,303.100.2953

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spake not wyth my modere syn Rychard Calle broght me the letter from
you tochyng here matere , PASTON,I,303.100.2954

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I myght haue no lesour . PASTON,I,303.100.2955

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When I speke wyth here at leysure I wyll remembere here in that matere
acordyng to youre wrytyng . PASTON,I,303.100.2956

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for youre tenauntys of Drayton , as I canne vnderstond by hem
they be ryght gode and trew hertyd to you to there powers ,
PASTON,I,303.100.2957

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and full fayn wold that ye had it a-yen in peasse ;
PASTON,I,303.100.2958

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they had as leffe al-most be tenauntys to the Devell as to the Duke
, except Wyll Herne , Pers at Sloth , and on Knott of the same towne ,
PASTON,I,303.100.2959

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they be not gode . PASTON,I,303.100.2960

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All youre tenauntys at Haylesdon and Drayton except thes iij be ryght
glad that we erre there a-mongys hem , PASTON,I,303.100.2961

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so be many othere of oure old nebors and frendys .
PASTON,I,303.100.2962

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And but yf ye com hom by Wensday or Thursday in Wytson Wyke , I purpose
me to see you in secrete wyse by Trynyte` Sonday , but yf ye send to me
contrary comaundement ere that tyme . PASTON,I,303.100.2963

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray you send me youre avyse how ye wyll that we doo a-yenst the
next shyre , whych $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} the Monday next aftere
Trynyte` Sonday , as for callyng vppon the replevyn that the bestys of
Drayton were delyueryd by . PASTON,I,303.100.2964

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Richard Calle told me that ye desyryd to haue Maister Phylyp ys
name ; PASTON,I,303.100.2965

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hys name ys Phylyp Lyp+geate PASTON,I,303.100.2966

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I send you a lettere by Henre` Wylton ys man wherin I wrote Maister
Phylyp ys name , PASTON,I,303.100.2967

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in the same letter I wrote to you for Wyll Lumnour .
PASTON,I,303.100.2968

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you send me word yf ye haue it . PASTON,I,303.100.2969

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the blysshyd Trynyte` haue you in hys kypyng .
PASTON,I,303.100.2970

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_100:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten the Monday next aftere Assencyon Day . By yourys , M. P.
PASTON,I,303.100.2971

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_101> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,304>

{ED:184._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_11_JUNE}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull hosbond John Paston be thys lettere
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,304.101.2972

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull husbond , I recomaunde me vn-to you .
PASTON,I,304.101.2973

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that I recevyd letters from you on Wensday laste
passyd the were wryten the Monday next be-fore , wherof I thanke you of
the lettere that ye send to me . PASTON,I,304.101.2974

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wolde fayn doo well yf I cowde , PASTON,I,304.101.2975

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as I canne I wol doo to youre pleasure and profet ,
PASTON,I,304.101.2976

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in such thyngys as I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} skyle of I wyll take
avyse of such as I know that be youre frendys , and doo as well as I
canne . PASTON,I,304.101.2977

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Where as ye wrote to me that Lydham told you that I told hym that the
Duckys men werre not so besy as thay had be by-fore , no more thay were
not at that tyme ; PASTON,I,304.101.2978

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but sythen they haue be bysyere . PASTON,I,304.101.2979

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What confort that thay haue I canne not haue no knowlych as yet ,
PASTON,I,304.101.2980

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I suppose , and all youre felshyp were gode , thay $should $not
{TEXT:sholdnot} haue so grete confort as thay haue , or ells thay wold
not be so besy as thay haue be . PASTON,I,304.101.2981

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Grete bost they make that the Duck shold haue Drayton in peas , and
aftere thys Haylesdon , and that wyth-in short tyme .
PASTON,I,304.101.2982

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thay ere moch the boldere , I suppose , by-cause that ye be where as ye
be . PASTON,I,304.101.2983

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At the reverens of God , yf ye may by any wyrshypfull or resonabell
mene , com ovte ther-of as sone as ye may , PASTON,I,304.101.2984

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and com hom a-mongys youre frendys and tenauntys ,
PASTON,I,304.101.2985

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that shold be to hem the grettyst confort that thay my+gt haue and
the contrary to youre enmys . PASTON,I,304.101.2986

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys sayd here that the Duck of Suffolk shall com to Coshay in haste
and logge there for a season . PASTON,I,304.101.2987

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fyle well by youre tenauntys that yf ye were peaseabyly possessyd and
youre cort holden in peaseabyll wyse , and that thay my+gt be in pease
a-yenst the othere many , than they wold take accyons a-yenste hem for
such wrongys as haue be don to hem . PASTON,I,304.101.2988

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ells thay say that they $dare $not {TEXT:thernot} take it vppon hem
, PASTON,I,304.101.2989

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they dwelle so ney to the othere many that thay knowe well thay
shold neuer be in ease yf thay dyde soo whyle that thay dele a-mongys
hem . PASTON,I,304.101.2990

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On Thursday last John Doket , the bayly ys son y lawe , and Thomas
Ponte , wyth othere , erly in the mornyng an ovre by-fore the sonne
rose com to youre fold PASTON,I,304.101.2991

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and drove away the flock at Drayton , both colyet and othere , in-to
Coshay fee or euer that the $shypherd myght haue knowlych <P_I,305>
therof . PASTON,I,305.101.2992

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And than he fowlyd on PASTON,I,305.101.2993

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyryd to haue hem a-yen , PASTON,I,305.101.2994

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thay wold not suffere hym to haue them , no more but the colyet ;
PASTON,I,305.101.2995

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there were c and j of yourys , PASTON,I,305.101.2996

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tho had thay forth wyth hem to Coshay . PASTON,I,305.101.2997

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the same day we had a replevyn for the cc shype and replevyn for
the hors that were taken at Haylesdon , PASTON,I,305.101.2998

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and how that thay were obbeyd Richard Call shall enforme you , and of
othere maters also the whych I may not wryte to you of at thys tyme .
PASTON,I,305.101.2999

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue spoke <em> wyth John </em> Strange of the matere that ye
wrote to me of , PASTON,I,305.101.3000

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in gode feyth I fynd hym , as me symyth , ryght well dysposyd to
you wardys ; PASTON,I,305.101.3001

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath acordyng to youre desyre spoken wyth Yeluerton yesterday to
fyle hys dysposision in that matere , PASTON,I,305.101.3002

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Yeluerton , as it symyth by hym , roght not gretely thogh the
matere brake so that he myght haue any resonabell colour to breke .
PASTON,I,305.101.3003

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He ys so callyd vppon by Wayte and othere of the Duck of Suffolk ys
counsell that he ote not where to hold hym , PASTON,I,305.101.3004

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he ys put in so grete confort , as I am enformyd , to receve money
for the lond ; PASTON,I,305.101.3005

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that temptyth hym ryght sore , PASTON,I,305.101.3006

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for wyth money he wold fayn be in handelyng , as ye know he hath nede
therof . PASTON,I,305.101.3007

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He told John Straunge that it ys informyd hym that ye haue vp an
enquest to deprove there wytnesse , PASTON,I,305.101.3008

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-wyth ys he sore movyd . PASTON,I,305.101.3009

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<em> ... </em> that yf any thyngys be don in temperall maters othere in
<em> spyrytuall ... </em> maters tochyng executours or feoffeys or
wyttnes tyll the day of <em> ... </em> trety be passyd he wyll not
abyde no trety ther-in but do as <em> ... </em> thynkyth best for to do
there-in . PASTON,I,305.101.3010

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told John Straunge that I <em> knew ... </em> thogh it were soo +tat
shold passe any such enquest it shol <em> not ... </em> of them in
provyng of here trothys , the whych shold be no hurt <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,305.101.3011

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore John Straunge desyryd me that I shuld send to you in al haste
PASTON,I,305.101.3012

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<em> that ... </em> any such folkys that thay shold not doo in the
matere tyll the day of <em> ... </em> may haue knowlych how he and
othere wold doo in such maters as sh <em> ... </em> he wold be loth
that he shold haue any colour to breke for any thyng <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,305.101.3013

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Yeluerton sayth it shall not breke thorf hys defaute yf ye wyll
$not <em> ... </em> be ryght glad to haue youre gode wyll and to goo
thorgh in all maner <em> maters ... </em> eschewyng of wastfull expens
of the dede ys godys and that the godys my+gt be dyspendyd to the welle
of the dede . PASTON,I,305.101.3014

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Straunge desyryd to knowe what appoyntementys he desyryth to haue in
the trety , PASTON,I,305.101.3015

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayd he wold not let that be vnderstond tyll the tyme of trety
cam . PASTON,I,305.101.3016

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me symyth , saue youre betere avyse , it were wel do that thay that be
com vp for you my+gt be kypt in som secryte place and <P_I,306> not do
in the matere tyll the tyme of the trety were passyd .
PASTON,I,306.101.3017

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cost there-of shall not be grete to that it my+gt hurte yf the
trety were broken by that meane . PASTON,I,306.101.3018

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And there ye may haue hem nyere , PASTON,I,306.101.3019

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf ye thynk it be to doo ye may haue hem to go to there matere
aftere the seyd tyme , PASTON,I,306.101.3020

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for of ij hurtys the grettyst ys best to be eschewyd .
PASTON,I,306.101.3021

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for youre houshold at Castere , sauyng youre betere avyse me
thynkyth that v or vj of youre folkys such as ye wyll assyngne were
<em> ... </em> kype the place , and thay for to go to bord wyth the
prustes and ye not to kype no houshold there yet ,
PASTON,I,306.101.3022

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that ye shall fynd more profettabyll than for to doo as we do nogh
; PASTON,I,306.101.3023

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for there expens , as I vnderstond , haue not be moch the lesse by-fore
Wytsontyde than it shold be thogh I had be at hom , by-cause of
resortyng of pepell thedere . PASTON,I,306.101.3024

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf the houshold were broke thay my+gt haue a gode excuse in that ,
who som euer com . PASTON,I,306.101.3025

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Call shall enforme you of thys maters and mo othere more
playnly than I may do wryte at thys tyme . PASTON,I,306.101.3026

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys necessary that possessyon be kypt hyre yett tyll ye be more
forthere forth in othere maters . PASTON,I,306.101.3027

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blessyd Trynyte` haue you $in hys kypyng PASTON,I,306.101.3028

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you gode spyde in all youre maters , PASTON,I,306.101.3029

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you grace to haue a gode conclusyon in hem in haste .
PASTON,I,306.101.3030

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_101:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten on the Tewysday nex be-fore Corpus Cristi . By youre faynt
houswyff at thys tyme , M. P. PASTON,I,306.101.3031

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_102> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,306>

{ED:185._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_24_JUNE}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght $wyrshypfull husbond John Paston be thys delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,306.102.3032

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull hosbond , I recomaund me to you .
PASTON,I,306.102.3033

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that the same Wensday that Richard Call departyd
hens I send Richard Charlys to speke wyth the vndershyrf , requyryng
hym that he shold serue the replevyn for the shype and hors that were
take , &c. ; PASTON,I,306.102.3034

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the shyrf sayd playnly that he $will $not {TEXT:wolnot} nor derst
not serue it , not thogh I wold yeve hym xx li. to serue it .
PASTON,I,306.102.3035

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Richard Charlys axhyd the cause why , PASTON,I,306.102.3036

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayd for he $would $not {TEXT:woldnot} haue to doo wyth that
felshyp ; PASTON,I,306.102.3037

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so it ys yet vnservyd . PASTON,I,306.102.3038

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose that Richard Calle hath told you what revell ther was by the
<P_I,307> bayllyf of Coshay and hys felaw vppon youre men that shold
haue seruyd the replevyn . PASTON,I,307.102.3039

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the same Wensday that Richard Call rode from hens $ther were
endytyd v of $youre men by the enquest of Fovrhoo hundere , as Crome
can enforme you . PASTON,I,307.102.3040

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Fryday last paste John Paston $the yongere , Wykys , and Thomas
Honeworth were endytyd at Dyram , PASTON,I,307.102.3041

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by what menys the berour herof , Crom , shall $enforme you .
PASTON,I,307.102.3042

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send thedere Richard Charlys , John Seve , and iij or iiij othere
gode felows for to haue don othere folkys as gode a torne ,
PASTON,I,307.102.3043

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it wold not be PASTON,I,307.102.3044

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the juge ys soo parcyall wyth the othere party that I trowe there
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sped no maters be-fore hym for you nor for non
of yourys tyl it be otherwyse by-twene you than it ys .
PASTON,I,307.102.3045

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Crom shall tell you of hys demenyng at the last sessyons at Dyrham .
PASTON,I,307.102.3046

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you a copy of both the endytementys . PASTON,I,307.102.3047

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youre son John Paston the yonger I hope shal be wyth you thys wyke ,
and enforme you of mo thyngys , and howe myn hors and hys sadell and
harnys ys prysoner at Coshay halle , and haue ben euer syn Wensday last
. PASTON,I,307.102.3048

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I recevyd a lettere from you on Satorday last whych was wryten
on Monday next be-fore , PASTON,I,307.102.3049

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue sent to Ser Thomas Howys the same day for such maters as ye
wrote to me of , PASTON,I,307.102.3050

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sent me word that Wyllyam Worceter had a boke of remembraunce of
recaytys that hath be recevyd by Ser John Fastolf or any of hys sythen
the iiij=te= yere $of Kyng Harry both of hys awyn lyflode or of any
othere mannys that he had to doo wyth all . PASTON,I,307.102.3051

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He sayd yf ye wold send to Wyll Worcetere to loke therfore he sayd he
wyst well he wold lete you haue knowlych yf any such thyng may be
founde ; PASTON,I,307.102.3052

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also he sayd that he wold send to the seyd Wyll to serche therfore
. PASTON,I,307.102.3053

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for such bokys as he hath hyre at hom , he wol doo loke yf any
remembraunce canne be founde therof , PASTON,I,307.102.3054

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye shall haue knowlych therof as he hath promysyd by Satourday next
comyng . PASTON,I,307.102.3055

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the woman that made the clayme that ye wrote of , he ys
wellwyllyd that she shold be seyn to in the way of almys ,
PASTON,I,307.102.3056

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , as I here say , it symyth by hym that in any thyng that he canne
doo tochyng the savacyon of the dedys gode , othere in lyflode othere
in othere godys , he sayth that he wyll doo . PASTON,I,307.102.3057

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I canne not haue no knowlych that Haydon mellyth in the matere of
Drayton . PASTON,I,307.102.3058

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf he do oght therin he doyth it closely , as he ys wont to doo ,
PASTON,I,307.102.3059

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wayshyth hys hondys therof as Pylate dyde . PASTON,I,307.102.3060

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It $shall $not {TEXT:shalnot} be long to or that I send to you of such
tythyngys as we haue ; PASTON,I,307.102.3061

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall lete you haue knowlych therof . PASTON,I,307.102.3062

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fynd Crom ryght welwyllyng to you in such thyngys as lyth in hym for
to do . PASTON,I,307.102.3063

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you lete hym be thankyd therfore , PASTON,I,307.102.3064

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that shall cause hym to be the betere wyllyd .
PASTON,I,307.102.3065

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hath not be rewardyd as yet but by Richard Call , as he canne tell
you . PASTON,I,307.102.3066

<P_I,308>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blyssyd Trynyte` haue you in hys kypyng PASTON,I,308.102.3067

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you gode spyde so in al youre maters . PASTON,I,308.102.3068

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten in hast on Mydsomer Day . PASTON,I,308.102.3069

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Rysyng , but yf ye purvey for hym he canne no helpe haue at home
. PASTON,I,308.102.3070

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_102:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yourys , M. P. PASTON,I,308.102.3071

<Q_PAS_C_1465?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_103> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,308>

{ED:186._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1465,_PROBABLY_30_JUNE}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston the yongere . </font> PASTON,I,308.103.3072

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele , letyng you wete that $as $for {TEXT:asfor} your
sustrys beyng wyth my lady , if your fadere wull aggrey ther-to I hold
me right wele pleasyd , PASTON,I,308.103.3073

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wuld be right clad +tat she shuld do here servyse be-for any
othere , PASTON,I,308.103.3074

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if she cowde do that shuld pleas my ladyes good grace . Wherfore I wuld
that ye shuld speke to your fader +terof and lete hym wete +tat I am
pleasid +tat she shuld be there if he wuld . PASTON,I,308.103.3075

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For I wuld be right glad and she myght be proferrid be mariage or be
servyce so +tat it myght be to here wurchep and profight in dischargyng
of here frendes , PASTON,I,308.103.3076

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you do your parte ther-in for your owyn wurchep and herys .
PASTON,I,308.103.3077

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And assone as ye may wyth-ought daungere , puruey +tat I may haue ageyn
the vj marc +tat ye wote of , PASTON,I,308.103.3078

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wuld not +tat your fadere wust it . PASTON,I,308.103.3079

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , if ye pas London send me ageyn my chene , and +te litill chene
+tat I lent you be-fore , be sum trusty person . PASTON,I,308.103.3080

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if ye wull haue my good wille eschewe such thynges as I spake to
you of last in owre parissh chirch . PASTON,I,308.103.3081

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God make you as good a man as euer was any of your kynne ,
PASTON,I,308.103.3082

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Goddes blissyng mote ye haue and myn , so +tat ye do wele , &c .
PASTON,I,308.103.3083

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Sonday next after your departyng . PASTON,I,308.103.3084

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray you send me sum tydynges as sone as ye may after +tat ye be
comyn to London how your fader spedyth and your brothere in here
materes . PASTON,I,308.103.3085

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21?
LETTER:PASTON_103:M4:1465?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your moder PASTON,I,308.103.3086

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_104> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,311>

{ED:189._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_7_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worschipful husbond John Paston be this delyuerd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,311.104.3087

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurchepfull husbond , I recomaund me to you .
PASTON,I,311.104.3088

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wete +tat I sent on Lammesse Day to Drayton Thomas
Bonde and Ser James Gloys to hold the court in your name and to clayme
your tytill , PASTON,I,311.104.3089

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I cowde gete non othere body to kepe the court ner that wuld go
theder but +te seid Thomas Bonde , be-cause I suppose thei were a-ferd
of the pepill +tat shuld be there of +te Duke of Suffolk parte .
PASTON,I,311.104.3090

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The seid Thomas and James , as the <P_I,312> Duke of Suffolk men , +tat
is to sey Harlesdon , +te parson of Salle , Mayster Phyllip , and
William Yeluerton , +te which was styward , wyth a lx persones or more
be estymacion , and the tenauntes of the same town , sum of hem hauyng
rusty pollexis and byllys , comyn in-to +te maner yard to kepe the
court , PASTON,I,312.104.3091

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
met wyth them PASTON,I,312.104.3092

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told them that thei were comyn to kepe +te court in your name and
to clayme your titill . Wherefore the seid Harlesdon , wyth-ought any
more wordes or occasion yovyn of your men , comytted the seid Thomas
Bonde to +te kepyng of +te new baly of Drayton , William Dokket , seyng
+tat he shuld go to my lord and do his herand hym-self ,
notwyth-stondyng +tat Ser James dede the erandes to them and had the
wordes ; where-fore thei toke +te seid Thomas wyth-ought occasion .
PASTON,I,312.104.3093

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thei wuld haue mad the seid Thomas to haue had the wordes ,
PASTON,I,312.104.3094

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te said James told hem that $he had hem be-cause he was the more
pesibill man , wham afterward thei bode avoyde , and sithen led forth
Thomas Bonde to Cossey , and bownde his armes be-hynde hym wyth
whippe-cord like a theffe , and shuld haue led hym forth to +te Duke of
Suffolk ner had be +tat I had spokyn wyth the juges in the morwyn or
+tei yede to the shire hous , and enformed hem of such ryottes and
assaugthis as thei had mad vp-on me and my men , the baly of Cossey and
all +te Duke of Suffolk councell beyng there present and all +te lerned
men of Norffolk and William Jeney and $myche pepill of +te contre` ;
PASTON,I,312.104.3095

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the juge callyng +te baly of Cossey be-for them all and yaffe hym a
gret rebuke , comaundyng the shereffe to se what pepill thei had gadred
at Drayton , which came after to Helesdon to se +te pepill there , wyth
weche $pepill he held hym wele content . PASTON,I,312.104.3096

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And fro thens he rode to Drayton to se there pepill which were avoyded
or he came , PASTON,I,312.104.3097

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there he desired to haue deliuered +te seid Thomas Bonde to hym .
PASTON,I,312.104.3098

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thei excusid hem PASTON,I,312.104.3099

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seid +tei had send hym to the Duke of Suffolk ; notwythstandyng
afterward thei sent hym to Norwhich to hym , desiryng hym +tat he shuld
deliuere hym not wyth-ought he mad a fyne be-cause he trobilled the
Kynges lete , for which thei mad l <em> .. </em> to juges ;
PASTON,I,312.104.3100

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but after +tat I vnderstod it I sent Danyell of Mershlond and Thomas
Bonde to enforme the juges how the seide Thomas was intreted amonges
hem , PASTON,I,312.104.3101

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he ded , PASTON,I,312.104.3102

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the juges were gretly <em> ... </em> wyth the Dukes men
PASTON,I,312.104.3103

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forwyth comaunded the scheryf to delyuer the seide Bone wythoute
any fyne $made , seyng that he out non to make . PASTON,I,312.104.3104

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in goode feythe I founde the juges ryght gentell <P_I,313> and
forberable to me in my matres notwythstandyng the Dukes councell had
made her compleynt to them or I come in ther werst wice , noysyng vs of
gret gatheryng of peopell and many riotes thynges don be me and your
men . PASTON,I,313.104.3105

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And after I enformed the juges of ther vntrouthe and of ther gidyng ,
and of oure gidyng in like wice , and after the juges vndrestod the
trouthe he gaue the baly of Cossey be-for me and many other a passyng
gret rebuke , seyng wythoute he amended hes condicion and gouernaunce
thei $wold enforme the Kyng and helpe that he schuld be punyschet .
PASTON,I,313.104.3106

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher as ye avyced $me <em> ... </em> a felaschip to kepe the coorte
at Drayton wyth easy cost , it was thought be your councell it $wer
better otherwice and not to gather no people , PASTON,I,313.104.3107

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was told me that the Dukes men had to the nombre of v c men ,
PASTON,I,313.104.3108

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and your councel aviced me to gete a felaschip to kepe my place at
Heylesdon , PASTON,I,313.104.3109

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was told me that they schuld come and pulle me out of the place
, weche cauced me to kepe the place the strenger at that tyme .
PASTON,I,313.104.3110

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for kepyng of any coorte for you at Drayton , I can not wete how
it cowde be brought a-boute wythoute helpe of other but if ther schuld
growe gret inconuenyence of it . PASTON,I,313.104.3111

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at the <em> assises ... </em> made gret labour to endite your men ;
notwythstandyng it was letted . PASTON,I,313.104.3112

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the writtes of replevyn they were delyuerd openly be-for the
juges to the scheryf , and also other writtes wech Jamys Gresham
brought , PASTON,I,313.104.3113

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and aftre that Richard Calle spake wyth the high scheref for the
servyng of hem , PASTON,I,313.104.3114

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he promysed to serue it and to send men of hes owne to serue it
. PASTON,I,313.104.3115

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so he sent ij of hes men wyth Richard Lynsted and wyth ij of $your
scheperdes to Cossey for the schepe , PASTON,I,313.104.3116

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther they were $answerd +tat Yeluerton cleymeth the properte` ,
PASTON,I,313.104.3117

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so wer they answerd in all other places wher as any catell was ;
PASTON,I,313.104.3118

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they departed PASTON,I,313.104.3119

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and come to the scheryf PASTON,I,313.104.3120

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and enformed hym , PASTON,I,313.104.3121

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I vndrestande the scheryf taketh it for an answere .
PASTON,I,313.104.3122

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwythstandyng , I send hym word wythoute that Yeluerton had ben ther
in hes owne persone he myte not cleyme the properte` ,
PASTON,I,313.104.3123

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and aviced hym to be ware what retorne he made +tat he were not hurte
by it ; PASTON,I,313.104.3124

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he hathe made no retorne yet . PASTON,I,313.104.3125

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What he wol doo I wot nere . PASTON,I,313.104.3126

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is stylle in this contre` yet , PASTON,I,313.104.3127

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schal be this iiij or v dayes , PASTON,I,313.104.3128

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but your councell thynketh it were wele don that ye gete an allias and
a plurias that it myght be sent don to the scheryf ,
PASTON,I,313.104.3129

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than he can make non excuce PASTON,I,313.104.3130

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but nedys <em> to serue </em> it or ell to make a retourne as he wol
a-bide by . PASTON,I,313.104.3131

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can not wete how the catell wol be goten <P_I,314> ayen wythoute
other processe be had more than we haue yet . PASTON,I,314.104.3132

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , on Twesday next comyng schal the sescions of the pees be at
Wolsyngham . PASTON,I,314.104.3133

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What schal be do ther I wot not yet , PASTON,I,314.104.3134

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as for any jndytementes that we schuld labor a-yenst them , it is
but wast werk , PASTON,I,314.104.3135

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the scheryf ner the jurrours wol no thyng do a-yenst them .
PASTON,I,314.104.3136

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , wher as ye desire to knowe what gentelmen wolde doo for you at
this tyme , jn goode feythe I founde Herry Greye , Lomnour , Alblastre
, $Wechyngham , Berney of Redham , Skyppewyth , and Danyell of
Mershelond ryght weele disposed to you ward at this tyme in helpyng and
in gevyng ther goode avice to me for suche maters as I had to doo .
PASTON,I,314.104.3137

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye schal haue more pleyne vndrestondyng of all thynges her-after than I
may write to you at this tyme . PASTON,I,314.104.3138

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the supersedias and the supplicauit is delyuerd to Alblastre and
to Wechyngham , PASTON,I,314.104.3139

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they haue mad out bothe warantes and supersedias ;
PASTON,I,314.104.3140

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neuertheles ther is non seruyd yet . PASTON,I,314.104.3141

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I receyued the box wyth the writte and the letter that Berney
sent to me on Friday last past and non er . PASTON,I,314.104.3142

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the pris of malte , it is fallen here sore
PASTON,I,314.104.3143

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is worthe but ij s. viij d. j quarter at Yermoth .
PASTON,I,314.104.3144

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for your wolle , I may selle a stoone for xl d. so that I wol
geve halfe yer day of $payment . PASTON,I,314.104.3145

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey you sende me word how I schal do in this matre and in all other
, &c. PASTON,I,314.104.3146

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And God kepe you . PASTON,I,314.104.3147

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wreten in haste the Wednesday next aftre Lammes Daye .
PASTON,I,314.104.3148

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_104:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your M. Paston PASTON,I,314.104.3149

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_105> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,314>

{ED:190._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_18_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull maystere John Paston be thys lettere
delyueryd in haste . </font> PASTON,I,314.105.3150

<P_I,315>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull husbond , I recomaund me to you .
PASTON,I,315.105.3151

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that I recevyd a lettere from you send by Laurens
Rede on Fryday laste past , wherby I vnderstond that ye had no
tythyngys from me at that tyme that youre lettere was wryten ; wherof I
mervayll , PASTON,I,315.105.3152

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I send you a lettere by Chyttock ys son that ys prenteys in London
, the whych was delyueryd to hym vppon the Thursday next aftere Lammas
Day , PASTON,I,315.105.3153

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he promysyd to ryde forward the same day and that ye shold haue it
as hastely as he my+gt aftere hys comyng to London .
PASTON,I,315.105.3154

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in the seyd lettere was of the demenyng at the assyses at Norwych
and of dyuers othere maters . PASTON,I,315.105.3155

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you send me word yf ye haue it . PASTON,I,315.105.3156

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the replevyns , Richard Call sayth he hath send you an awnswere
of hem and also the copys of them . PASTON,I,315.105.3157

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the hygh shyrf , he demenyd hym ryght well here to me ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3158

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayd to me as for the replevyns he wold aske counseyll of lernyd
men what he my+gt doo there-in PASTON,I,315.105.3159

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as largely as he my+gt doo there-in , or in any othere matere
twochyng you , sauyng hym-sylf harmlys , he woll doo for you and for
yourys that he my+gt doo . PASTON,I,315.105.3160

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cause that I wrote to you non ere than I dyde aftere the sessyons
was by-cause that Yeluerton held sessyons at Dyrham and Walsyngham the
next wyke aftere the assyses , and to haue knowlych what labour that
was made there , and to haue send you word therof .
PASTON,I,315.105.3161

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There was grete labour made by the bayly of Coshay and othere for to
haue endytyd youre men both at Dyrham and at Walsyngham ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3162

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I purvayd a mene that here purpose was lettyd at thos ij tymes .
PASTON,I,315.105.3163

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue send to Ser Thomas Howys yesterday Richard Call , for the matere
of my lady of Bedfford , PASTON,I,315.105.3164

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he my+gt not speke wyth hym PASTON,I,315.105.3165

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor I haue non awnswere therof yet , PASTON,I,315.105.3166

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I shall send to hym a-yen thys wyke . PASTON,I,315.105.3167

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue do layd in the presentacyon of Drayton ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3168

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue presentyd Ser Thomas Hakon , parson of Felthorp , the whych ys
hold ryght a gode man and wel dysposyd ; PASTON,I,315.105.3169

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the Duck of Suffolk hath layd in a-nothere , PASTON,I,315.105.3170

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there shall be take an inquisicyon ther-vppon ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3171

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Maister Styven ys youre a-voked there-in . PASTON,I,315.105.3172

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Maister John Estgade ys passyd to God on Thursday last passyd , whos
sawle God assoyle ; wherof in gode fayth I am ryght sory ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3173

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I fond hym ryght faythfull to you . PASTON,I,315.105.3174

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They dyy ryght sore in Norwych . PASTON,I,315.105.3175

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Maister John Salet and Maister Godfray and Maister John Estgate ys
brothere of London ben hys excecutours , as it ys told me .
PASTON,I,315.105.3176

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf ye thynk it be to doo , me thynkyth it were well doo that ye spake
wyth hys brothere at London or he com in-to Norffolk , yf he had any
thyngys of yourys in kypyng towchyng youre maters ,
PASTON,I,315.105.3177

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall send to Maister Godffray in lyke wyse .
PASTON,I,315.105.3178

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was at Castere all the last wyke for dyuers thyngys there the whych
ye <P_I,316> shall haue knowlych of heraftere , PASTON,I,316.105.3179

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I cam not hom tyll yester yevyn late . PASTON,I,316.105.3180

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the matere that ye wrote to me of for John Rus twochyng the
bargyn , me thynkyth he $will $not {TEXT:wylnot} in no wyse leve it ,
wherfore I haue made purvyauns that he shall haue the money , as ye
shall haue knowlych herof heraftere . PASTON,I,316.105.3181

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for any money that he hath recevyd therof to hys awyn vse , he sayth
playnly that he neuer recevyd peny therof yet . PASTON,I,316.105.3182

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the examynacyon of the fermours , thay myght not be spoken wyth
yet sythen I recevyd youre lettere , PASTON,I,316.105.3183

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I sall do hem examyn here-aftere as hastely $as y may .
PASTON,I,316.105.3184

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Rus sayth the profetys that hath be taken of that same maner syn
Ser John Fastolf deyd hath be take by Ser Thomas Howys and Jenney .
PASTON,I,316.105.3185

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hugh a Fen ys in Flegge . PASTON,I,316.105.3186

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Richard Call spake wyth hym thys wyke , PASTON,I,316.105.3187

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sayd to Richard that he and hys wyff wold be wyth me here thys
wyke toward a place of hys that he hath purchasyd of Godehredys .
PASTON,I,316.105.3188

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf he com I shall make hym gode chyre , PASTON,I,316.105.3189

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it ys told me of dyuers folkys that haue spoke wyth hym sythen he
com in-to Norffolk as thay fele by hys sayng that he awyth you ryght
gode wyll . PASTON,I,316.105.3190

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for my comyng to you , yf it please you that I com y hope I
shall purvey so for althyngys or I com that it shall be sayff y-nogh ,
by the grace of God , tyll I com a-yen . PASTON,I,316.105.3191

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But at the reuerens of God , yf ye may purvey a mene that ye may com
hom youre-sylf , for that shall be most profectabell to you ;
PASTON,I,316.105.3192

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for men cut large thongys here of othere mens lethere .
PASTON,I,316.105.3193

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall wryte to you a-yen as hastely as I may . PASTON,I,316.105.3194

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue you in hys kypyng . PASTON,I,316.105.3195

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten in haste at Haylesdon the Sonday next aftere the Assumpsyon of
Oure Lady . PASTON,I,316.105.3196

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my cosyn Elysabeth Clere ys at Ormesby , PASTON,I,316.105.3197

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and youre modere purposyth to be at here place at Castere thys wyke ,
PASTON,I,316.105.3198

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for +te pestylens ys so feruent in Norwych that thay there no lengere
a-byde there . PASTON,I,316.105.3199

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So God help , me thynkyth by my modere that she wold ryght fayn that ye
dyde well , and that ye myght spyde ryght well in youre maters ,
PASTON,I,316.105.3200

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and me thynkyth by my cosyn Clere that she wold fayn haue youre gode
wyll and that she hath sworyn ryght faythfully to me that there shall
no defaute be founde in here , nor noght hath be yf the trogh myght be
vnderstond , as she hopyth it shall be heraftere .
PASTON,I,316.105.3201

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She sayth there ys no man a-lyff that she hath put here truste in so
moch as she hath doon in you . PASTON,I,316.105.3202

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She sayth she wote well such langage as hath be reportyd to you of here
othere-wyse then she hath deseruyd causyth you to be othere-wyse to
here then ye shold be . PASTON,I,316.105.3203

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She had to me thys langage wypyng , PASTON,I,316.105.3204

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told me of dyuers othere thyngys the whych ye shall haue knowlych
of heraftere . PASTON,I,316.105.3205

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_105:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yourys , M. P. PASTON,I,316.105.3206

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_106> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,323>

{ED:194._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_17_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
On Tuesday in the morwyn whas John Botillere , o+terwyse callid John
Palmere , and Davy Arnald your cook , and William Malthows of Aylsham
taken at Heylesdon be the balyf of Ey , callid Bottisforth , and led
for to Cossey , PASTON,I,323.106.3207

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there thei kepe hem yet wyth-ought any warant or autoryte` of
justice of peas ; PASTON,I,323.106.3208

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thei sey thei wull carie hem forth to Ey preson ,
PASTON,I,323.106.3209

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as many as thei may gete more of your men and tenauntes +tat thei
may knowe that owe yow good wyll or hath be to you ward , thei be thret
to be slayn or presoned . PASTON,I,323.106.3210

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duke came to Norwich on Tuesday at x of clok wyth +te nombre of v
hundred men , PASTON,I,323.106.3211

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he sent after +te meyre and alderman wyth +te sherefes , desiryng
hem in the Kynges name +tat thei shuld take an enqueraunce of +te
constablys of euery ward wyth-in the cyte` what men shuld a go on your
party to haue holpyn or socowryd your men at any tyme of +tes
gaderynges , and if any thei cowde fynde +tat thei shuld take and arest
hym and correct hym , and also certifie hym the names on Wyndenesse-day
be viij of clok ; which the meyre dede and wull do any thyng +tat he
may for hym and his . PASTON,I,323.106.3212

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And here-vp-on the meyre hath arestid on +tat was wyth me callid Roberd
Lovegold , brasere , and threte hym +tat he shall be hanged be the nek
, wherfore I wuld +tat there myght come down a writ to remeve hym , if
ye thynk it be to do . PASTON,I,323.106.3213

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was not wyth me , not saue that Harleston and othere mad +te
assaught vp-on me at Lammesse . PASTON,I,323.106.3214

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is right good and feythfull on-to you , PASTON,I,323.106.3215

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therefore I wuld he had help . PASTON,I,323.106.3216

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue non man at this tyme to avayte vp-on me +tat dare be avowyd but
litill John . PASTON,I,323.106.3217

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
William Nawton is here wyth me , PASTON,I,323.106.3218

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he dar not ben avowyd PASTON,I,323.106.3219

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is sore thret . PASTON,I,323.106.3220

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is told me +te old lady and +te Duke is set fervently a-geyn vs be
the enformacion of Harlesdon , +te baly of Cossey , and Andrewys , and
Doget +te balys sone , and suych othere fals shrewys the which wuld
haue thes matere born ought <P_I,324> for there owyn plesere ; the
which causith an evyll noyse in this contre` and othere places .
PASTON,I,324.106.3221

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And $as $for {TEXT:asfor} Ser John Hevenyngham , Ser John Wyndefeld ,
and othere wurchepfull men ben mad but here doggeboltes , the which I
suppose wull turne hem to diswurchep here-after . PASTON,I,324.106.3222

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spake wyth Ser John $Heuenyngham PASTON,I,324.106.3223

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and enformed hym wyth the trough of +te matere , and of all owyre
demenyng at Drayton , PASTON,I,324.106.3224

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seid he wuld +tat all thyng were wele and +tat he wuld enforme
my lord as I seid to hym , PASTON,I,324.106.3225

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Harleston had all +te wordes and +te rewle wyth the Duke here
PASTON,I,324.106.3226

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and after his avyse and Doctour Aleynes he was avysed here at this tyme
. PASTON,I,324.106.3227

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The logge and the remenaunte of your place was betyn down on Tuesday
and Wednesday , PASTON,I,324.106.3228

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te Duke rode on Wednysday to Drayton and so for to Cossey whill
+te logge at Heylesdon was in +te betyng down . PASTON,I,324.106.3229

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And +tis nyght at mydnyght Thomas Sleyforth , Grene , Portere , and
$John Botesforth the baly of Eye and othere had a cart
PASTON,I,324.106.3230

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and fetched awey fetherbeddes and all +te stuffe +tat was left at +te
parsones and Thomas Wateres hows to be kept of owres .
PASTON,I,324.106.3231

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall send you billes er-after as nere as I may what stuffe we haue
forborn . PASTON,I,324.106.3232

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you send me word how ye wull +tat I be demened , wheder ye wull
+tat $I a-bide at Caystere or come to you to London .
PASTON,I,324.106.3233

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue no leysere to write nomore . PASTON,I,324.106.3234

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,I,324.106.3235

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwich on Sent Lukes Evyn . PASTON,I,324.106.3236

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_106:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
M. P. PASTON,I,324.106.3237

<Q_PAS_C_1465_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_107> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,329>

{ED:196._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_27_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull hosbond John Paston be thys delyueryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,I,329.107.3238

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wyrshypfull hosbond , I recomand me to you .
PASTON,I,329.107.3239

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it you to wyte that I haue spoken wyth John Rus to doo youre
erantys to the parson of Blowfyld for such maters as be cleymed for Ser
John Fastolf , PASTON,I,329.107.3240

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} send hym the byllys that ye send to me .
PASTON,I,329.107.3241

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I toke them to Arblastere for to haue delyuerd to Ser Thomas ,
PASTON,I,329.107.3242

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me that he had lefte the seyd byllys at hom wyth Blaunch
hys doghtere . PASTON,I,329.107.3243

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send to here for hem , PASTON,I,329.107.3244

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be founde ; PASTON,I,329.107.3245

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue take John Rus the namys of them that clayme the money ,
PASTON,I,329.107.3246

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he shall bryng you an aunswere therof the wyke next aftere
Hallawmasse . PASTON,I,329.107.3247

<P_I,330>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you a lettere by Gryne the lodere which was wryten vppon Wensday
last , how that John Botelere and hys felowys were delyueryd owte of
prison . PASTON,I,330.107.3248

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Rus told me that Jenney ys sore be-hated wyth the Duches of
Suffolk and here sone for the matere that ys be-twyne John Straunge and
on of here men , PASTON,I,330.107.3249

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he dymeth , and othere moo , that it ys the chyff cause of the
brekyng vppe of houshold . PASTON,I,330.107.3250

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys told me that Jenney wyll be betere dysposyd to you wardys then he
hath be byfore yf he be spoken to of youre maters .
PASTON,I,330.107.3251

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Barthollomew Whyte hath be straungely entretyd , and hys brothere and
othere that com to record wyth hym , PASTON,I,330.107.3252

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they were betyn and putte in prison and fovle revylyd by Harleston
and the bayly of Ey and othere of the Duck of Suffolk ys men .
PASTON,I,330.107.3253

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But yf such thyngys as thay haue don may be chaystyd be-tyme men dyme
that thay wyll do more harme in haste . PASTON,I,330.107.3254

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was at Haylesdon vppon Thorsday laste passyd PASTON,I,330.107.3255

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sey the place there , PASTON,I,330.107.3256

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in gode feyth there wyll no cryature thynke how fowle and orubelly
it ys a-rayed but yf they sey it . PASTON,I,330.107.3257

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There comyth moch pepyll dayly to wondere there-vppon both of Norwych
and of other placys , PASTON,I,330.107.3258

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they speke shamfully therof . PASTON,I,330.107.3259

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duck had be betere than a m=l= li. that it had neuer be don ,
PASTON,I,330.107.3260

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye haue the more gode wyll of the pepyll that it ys so foyll don .
PASTON,I,330.107.3261

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thay made youre tenauntys of Haylesdon and Drayton , wyth othere ,
to help to breke down the wallys of the place and the logge both , God
knowyth full evyll a-yenst there wyllys but that they derst no nothere
wysse don for ferre . PASTON,I,330.107.3262

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue spoken wyth youre tenauntys of Haylesdon and Drayton both , and
putte hem in confort as well as I canne . PASTON,I,330.107.3263

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Duck ys men rensackyd the church PASTON,I,330.107.3264

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and bare a-way all the gode that was lefte there , both of ourys and of
the tenauntys , PASTON,I,330.107.3265

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lefte not so moch but that they stode vppon the hey awtere and
ransackyd the jmages and toke a-way such as thay myght fynd , and put
a-way the parson owte of the church tyll thay had don , and ransackyd
euery mans hous in the town v or vj tymys . PASTON,I,330.107.3266

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the chyff maysters of robbyng was the baylly of Ey , the baylly of
Stradbroke , Thomas Slyford . PASTON,I,330.107.3267

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Slyford was the chyff robbere of the cherch , PASTON,I,330.107.3268

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath most of the robbory next the baylly of Ey ,
PASTON,I,330.107.3269

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for lede , bras , pewtere , yren , dorys , gatys , and othere
stuffe of the hous , men of Coshay and Cavston haue it ,
PASTON,I,330.107.3270

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that thay myght not cary thay haue hewen it a-sondere in the most
dysspytuose wyse . PASTON,I,330.107.3271

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf it myght be I wold som men of wyrshop myght be send from the Kyng to
see how it ys both there and at the logge , ore than any snowys com ,
that thay may make report of the troth ; PASTON,I,330.107.3272

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ellys it shall not mo be seyn so playnly as it may now .
PASTON,I,330.107.3273

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at the reuerens of God , spyde youre maters nowe ,
PASTON,I,330.107.3274

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it ys to orybell a cost and trobell that we haue now dayly and most
haue tyll it be othere-wyse ; PASTON,I,330.107.3275

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and youre men dere not goo a-bowte to gedere vppe youre <P_I,331>
lyfflode , PASTON,I,331.107.3276

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and we kype here dayly more then xxx persons for sauacyon of ous and
the place , PASTON,I,331.107.3277

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in very trowght and the place $had $not {TEXT:hadnot} be kypyd
strong the Duck had com hethere . PASTON,I,331.107.3278

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The mayere of Norwych dede a-rest the baylly of Normandys , Lovegold ,
Grygory Cordonere , and Bartholomew Fullere wyth-ovten any autoryte`
saue only he sayth that he hath a comandement of the Duck to do so ;
PASTON,I,331.107.3279

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he wyll not lete hem ovte of prison tyll he had suerty for ache of
hem in iiij=xx= li. for to awnswere to such maters as the Duck and hys
counsell wyll put a-yenst hem at any tyme that thay be callyd ,
PASTON,I,331.107.3280

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so woll he do to othere , as many as he may gyte , that awe you any
gode wyll . PASTON,I,331.107.3281

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also the mayere wold haue had hem sworen that thay shold neuer be
a-yenst the Duck nor non of hys , whych thay wold not do in no wyse .
PASTON,I,331.107.3282

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pore Bartholomew lyeth styll for defaute of suerty .
PASTON,I,331.107.3283

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was som tyme moch tendyng to gode Edmond Clyre .
PASTON,I,331.107.3284

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Arblastere thynketh verely that Hugh a Fen may do moch in youre maters
, PASTON,I,331.107.3285

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he thynkyth that he woll do for you faythfully yf ye wyll , &c .
PASTON,I,331.107.3286

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At the reuerens of God , yf any wyrshypfull and profetabill mene may be
take yn youre maters , for-sake it not in eschuyng of oure trobell and
grete costys and chargys that we haue and may growe here-aftere .
PASTON,I,331.107.3287

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys thoght here that yf my lord of Norffolk wolld take vppon hym for
you , and that he may haue a comyssyon for to enquere of such ryottys
and robboryes as hath be don to you and othere in thys contray , that
then all the contray wyll a-wayte vppon hym and serue youre entent ,
PASTON,I,331.107.3288

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the pepyll lovyth and dredyth hym more then any othere lord except
the Kyng and my lord of Warwyk , &c . PASTON,I,331.107.3289

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , yf it please you , there ys on Harald of Haynford hath boght a
bond tenantry of yourys of on John Whyte , PASTON,I,331.107.3290

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the parson had it in ferm be-fore that it was sold .
PASTON,I,331.107.3291

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he sayth that yf it shold be sold that he had a promyse of the
awnere that he shold by it be-fore any othere man ;
PASTON,I,331.107.3292

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the awnere sayth that he made hym neuer non soch promys , nore
receyvd neuer peny of hym for no bargyn . Wher-vppon I haue don hym
examyn a-fore the same parson and all the parysh ,
PASTON,I,331.107.3293

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there he sware vppon a boke that he made neuer bargyng wyth no man
saue only wyth Harald ; PASTON,I,331.107.3294

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Harald hath payd hym there-fore by-fore suffycyaunt record
PASTON,I,331.107.3295

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath don coste vppon the hous sythen that he boght it ,
PASTON,I,331.107.3296

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and by-cause of evyll wyll that the parson awyth to hym he wold haue it
from hym , PASTON,I,331.107.3297

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but the parson hath no gode record of hys bargyn .
PASTON,I,331.107.3298

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you thogh ye be enformyd by Richard Calle for the parson ys
parte that ye yffe no credans to hym therin , PASTON,I,331.107.3299

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye shall here the matere youre-sylf when ye com hom ;
PASTON,I,331.107.3300

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Richard holdyth more <P_I,332> wyth the parson for hys love then
for the troght of the matere , PASTON,I,332.107.3301

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you that Harald may ocupy the land tyll the troght may be
vnderstond . PASTON,I,332.107.3302

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray you hertely send me word how ye do and how ye spyde in youre
maters in haste , and that I may haue knowlych how youre sonnys doth .
PASTON,I,332.107.3303

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I com hom thys nyght late , PASTON,I,332.107.3304

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} hyre tyll I hyre othere tydyngys from you
. PASTON,I,332.107.3305

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wykys com hom vppon Satore-day , PASTON,I,332.107.3306

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he met not wyth youre sonys . PASTON,I,332.107.3307

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue you in hys kypyng PASTON,I,332.107.3308

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send ous gode tydyngys from you . PASTON,I,332.107.3309

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:HUSBAND:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_107:M4:1465:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten in haste vppon the Seynt Symon and Jude ys Evyn . By yourys M.
P. PASTON,I,332.107.3310

<Q_PAS_C_1466_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_108> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,333>

{ED:198._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1466,_29_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull maystere Ser John Paston , kny+gt , be
thys lettere delyueryd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,333.108.3311

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grytte you well , PASTON,I,333.108.3312

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you God ys blessyng and myn , desyryng you to send me word how
that ye spede in youre maters , PASTON,I,333.108.3313

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thynk ryght long tyll I here tydyngys from you .
PASTON,I,333.108.3314

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in alwyse I avyse you for to be ware that ye kepe wysly youre
wrytyngys that ben of charge , that it com not in here handys that may
hurt you heraftere . PASTON,I,333.108.3315

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youre fadere , wham God assole , in hys trobyll seson set more by hys
wrytyngys and evydens than he dede by any of his moveabell godys .
PASTON,I,333.108.3316

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembere that yf tho were had from you ye kowd neuer gyte no moo such
as tho be for youre parte , &c . PASTON,I,333.108.3317

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I wold ye shold take hyde that yf any processe com owte a-yenste
me , or a-yenst any of tho that were endyted a-fore the coronere , that
I myght haue knowlych therof and to purvey a remedy therfore .
PASTON,I,333.108.3318

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for youre fader ys wyll , I wold ye shold take ryght gode
counsell therin , as I am enformyd it may be provyd thogh no man take
no charge thys twelfmonth . PASTON,I,333.108.3319

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye may haue a lettere of mynystracyon to such as {to}_P ye wyll , and
mynestere the godys and take no charge . PASTON,I,333.108.3320

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I avyse you that ye in no wyse take no charge therof tyll ye know more
than ye doo yet , PASTON,I,333.108.3321

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye may verely knowe by that youre vnkell Will seyd to you and to me
that thay wyll lay the charge vppon you and me for moo thyngys then ys
exprest in youre fadere ys wyll , the whych shud be to grete for you or
me to bere . PASTON,I,333.108.3322

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as for me , I will not be to hasty to take it vppon me , I ensure
you . PASTON,I,333.108.3323

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at the reuerens of God , spede youre maters soo thys terme that we
may be in rest heraftere , PASTON,I,333.108.3324

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lette not for no labour for the season ; PASTON,I,333.108.3325

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and remembere the grete cost and charge that we haue had hedyre-toward
, PASTON,I,333.108.3326

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thynk verely it may not lange endure . PASTON,I,333.108.3327

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye know what ye left when ye <P_I,334> were last at hom ,
PASTON,I,334.108.3328

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyte it verely ther ys no more in thys countray to bere owte no
charge wyth . PASTON,I,334.108.3329

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I avyse you to enquere wysely yf ye canne gyte any more there as ye be
, PASTON,I,334.108.3330

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for els , by my feth , I feere els it will not be well wyth ous .
PASTON,I,334.108.3331

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And send me word in hast hough ye doo , and whethere ye haue youre
laste dedys that ye fayled , PASTON,I,334.108.3332

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for playnly thay $are $not {TEXT:ernot} in thys contray .
PASTON,I,334.108.3333

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It ys told me in consell that Richard Calle hath nyere conqueryd youre
vncle Will wyth fayre promyse twochyng hys lyflode and othere thyngys
the whych shold prevayll hym gretly , as he sayth .
PASTON,I,334.108.3334

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be ware of hym and of hys felowe , be myn avyse . PASTON,I,334.108.3335

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God send you gode spede in all youre maters . PASTON,I,334.108.3336

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at Castere the moren next aftere Symon and Jude , where as I
wold not be at thys tyme but for youre sake , PASTON,I,334.108.3337

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so mot I they . PASTON,I,334.108.3338

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_108:M4:1466:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By youre modere PASTON,I,334.108.3339

<Q_PAS_C_1467_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_109> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,334>

{ED:199._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1467,_11_JULY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Ser John Paston , knyght , be +tis delivered in hast .
</font> PASTON,I,334.109.3340

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,334.109.3341

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blissyng and myn , letyng you wete that Blykklyng
of Heylesdon came fro London this weke , PASTON,I,334.109.3342

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is right mery PASTON,I,334.109.3343

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and maketh his bost that wyth-in this fourtnyght at Helesdon shuld be
bothe new lordes and new officeres . PASTON,I,334.109.3344

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also this day was brought me word fro Cayster that Rysyng of Freton
shuld haue herd seid , in diuerse places there as he was in Suffolk ,
that Fastolf of Coughhawe maketh all the strenght that he may and
purposith hym to assaught Caystre and to entre there if he may , in
somych that it is seyd that he hath a v score men redy <P_I,335> and
sendyth dayly aspies to vnderstand what felesshep kepe the place .
PASTON,I,335.109.3345

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be whos powere or favour or supportacion that he wull do this I knowe
not , PASTON,I,335.109.3346

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but ye wote wele that I haue ben affrayd there be-fore this tyme whan
that I had othere comfort than I haue now . PASTON,I,335.109.3347

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I can not wele gide ner rewle sodyour , PASTON,I,335.109.3348

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also thei set not be a woman as thei shuld set be a man .
PASTON,I,335.109.3349

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I wold ye shuld send home your brothere or ell Dawbenye to
haue a rewle and to takyn in such men as were necessary for the
saffegard of the place , PASTON,I,335.109.3350

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if I were there wyth-ought I had the more saddere or wurchepfull
persones abought me , and there comyn a meny of knavys and prevaylled
in there entent , it shuld be to me but a vylney .
PASTON,I,335.109.3351

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I haue ben a-bought my liffelode to set a rewle there-in as I haue
wretyn to you , which is not yet all parfourmed after myn desyre ,
PASTON,I,335.109.3352

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wuld not go to Cayster till I had don . PASTON,I,335.109.3353

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wull nomore days make there-abowtyn if I may ; PASTON,I,335.109.3354

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
there-fore in any wyse send summe body home to kepe the place .
PASTON,I,335.109.3355

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And whan that I haue do and parfourmed that I haue be-gunne I shall
purpose me thederward if I shuld do there any good ,
PASTON,I,335.109.3356

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ell I had leuer be thens . PASTON,I,335.109.3357

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent to Nicholas and such as kepe the place that thei shuld
takyn in summe feles to assiste and strengh them till ye send home sum
othere word or summe othere man to gouerne them +tat ben there-in , &c
. PASTON,I,335.109.3358

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I marvayll gretly that ye send me no word how that ye do ,
PASTON,I,335.109.3359

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for your elmyse be-gynne to wax right bold , PASTON,I,335.109.3360

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that puttith your frendes bothyn-1 in grete fere and dought .
PASTON,I,335.109.3361

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore purvey that thei may haue summe comfort +tat thei be no more
discoraged , PASTON,I,335.109.3362

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if we lese our frendes it shall $be hard in this troblelous werd to
kete them ageyn . PASTON,I,335.109.3363

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trynyte` spede you in your materes PASTON,I,335.109.3364

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you the victory of your elmyse to your hertes eas and there
confusyon . PASTON,I,335.109.3365

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwich the Saterday next be-fore Relyke Sonday in hast .
PASTON,I,335.109.3366

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you remembre wele the materes +tat I wrote to you fore in the
lettere +tat ye had be James Greshams man , PASTON,I,335.109.3367

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me an answere there-of be +te next man +tat comyth , &c .
PASTON,I,335.109.3368

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_109:M4:1467:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By your moder M. P. PASTON,I,335.109.3369

<Q_PAS_C_1469_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_110> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,336>

{ED:200._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_12_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Ser John Paston , knyght , be this deliuered in hast .
</font> PASTON,I,336.110.3370

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,336.110.3371

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , desiryng you to recomaund me to
my brothere William and to comune wyth hym and your councell in such
materes as I wright to you , that there may be purveyd be summe writyng
fro the Kyng that my lord of Norffolk and his councell seas of the wast
that thei don in your lordsheps and in especiall at Heynford ;
PASTON,I,336.110.3372

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei haue felled all the wood PASTON,I,336.110.3373

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and this weke thei wull carie it a-wey , and lete renne the wateres and
take all the fyssh . PASTON,I,336.110.3374

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Ser William Yeluerton and his sone William , John Grey , and
Burgeys , Will Yeluerton men , haue ben at Guton and takyn distresses ,
PASTON,I,336.110.3375

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyth-ought that thei wull pay them thei shall not set ought no plow
to till there londe . PASTON,I,336.110.3376

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thei byd them lete there lond lye on-tilled but if thei pay them , so
that if the tenauntes haue no remedy that thei may pesibily wyth-ought
assaught or distresse takyng be the seid Yeluerton or his men , or of
any o+ter in there names , at there liberte` herye there londes wyth-in
this vij days , PASTON,I,336.110.3377

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
there tylth in tho feldes $shall be lost for all thes yere
PASTON,I,336.110.3378

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thei shall be on-doon . PASTON,I,336.110.3379

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And though ye shuld kepe it here-after pesibilly , ye shuld lese the
ferme of this yere , PASTON,I,336.110.3380

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei may not pay you but if thei may occupie there londes .
PASTON,I,336.110.3381

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thei set not so sone a plow ought at there gates but +ter is a
felesshep redy to take it . PASTON,I,336.110.3382

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thei ride wyth speres and laungegays like men of werre , so that
the seid tenauntes arn a-ferd to kepe there owyn howses .
PASTON,I,336.110.3383

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore purvey an redy remedye , PASTON,I,336.110.3384

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ell ye lese the tenauntes hertes and ye gretly hurt ,
PASTON,I,336.110.3385

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is gret <P_I,337> pety to here the swemefull and petowse
compleyntes of the pore tenauntes that come to me for comfort and
socour , sumtyme be vj or vij to-geder . PASTON,I,337.110.3386

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore , for Goddes love , se that thei ben holpyn ,
PASTON,I,337.110.3387

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desire my brothere William to geve you good councell here-in .
PASTON,I,337.110.3388

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also it is told me that my lady of Suffolk hath promysed you here good
will if your bargayn of the mariage holdyth , to do as largely as she
shall be disired , or largelyere if there be any appoyntement takyn
a-twix you for any materes a-twix here and you . PASTON,I,337.110.3389

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thei wuld avyse you to geve any money to here to make here refuse
or disclayme here titill , PASTON,I,337.110.3390

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
me semyth ye may wele excuse you be the money that she had last and be
the wronges that were don be here and here men in fellyng of wood and
pullyng doun of your place and logge at Heylesdon and takyn a-wey of
the shep and your faderes goodes which were takyn a-wey at the pullyng
don of the seid place ; whech wele considered she were wurthy to
recompense you . PASTON,I,337.110.3391

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Kyng and the lordes were wele enformed thei wuld considere the
redilyere your hurtes . PASTON,I,337.110.3392

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It semyth this Ser William Yeluerton hath comfort that he is so bold ,
PASTON,I,337.110.3393

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for $he hath right prowde and fowle langage , and right slaunderows ,
to the tenauntes , as thei haue reported to me ; PASTON,I,337.110.3394

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
therfore be right ware that ye bynde not your-self ner make non
ensuraunce till ye be suere of a pesibill possession of your londe ,
PASTON,I,337.110.3395

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for oftyn tyme rape rueth , PASTON,I,337.110.3396

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whan a man hath mad such a comenaunte he must $keep $it
{TEXT:kepit} , PASTON,I,337.110.3397

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he may not chese ; PASTON,I,337.110.3398

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$therefore be not to hasty till your londe be clere .
PASTON,I,337.110.3399

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And labore hastly a remedy for thes premysses , PASTON,I,337.110.3400

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ell Ser John Fastolfes lyvelode , thowgh ye entre it pesibilly ,
shall not be worth to you a grote this yere wyth-ought ye wull on-do
your tenauntes . PASTON,I,337.110.3401

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you remembre a kerchye of cremyll for your suster Anne .
PASTON,I,337.110.3402

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembre to labore sume remedy for your faderes will whill my lord of
Caunterbury lyvyth , PASTON,I,337.110.3403

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is an old man PASTON,I,337.110.3404

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is now frendly to you ; PASTON,I,337.110.3405

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he happed to dye how shuld come after hym ye wote neuer .
PASTON,I,337.110.3406

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if he were a nedy man , in asmych as your fader was noysed of so
greet valew he wull be the more straunge to entrete ;
PASTON,I,337.110.3407

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete this be not for-gete , PASTON,I,337.110.3408

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for were there on that aught vs no good wyll he myght calle vs vp to
make accounte of his goodes . PASTON,I,337.110.3409

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if we had not for to shewe for vs where-by we haue occupied , he
myght send doun assentence to curse vs in all the diosyse and to make
vs to deliuere his goodes , which were to vs a gret shame and a rebuke
. PASTON,I,337.110.3410

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore purvey hastly and wyssely +terfore whill he levyth ,
PASTON,I,337.110.3411

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and do not , as ye dede whill my lord of York was chancellor , make
delays ; PASTON,I,337.110.3412

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if ye had labored in his tyme as ye haue do sith , ye had be thurgh
in your <P_I,338> materes . PASTON,I,338.110.3413

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be ware be that , PASTON,I,338.110.3414

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete slauth nomore take you in such diffaught .
PASTON,I,338.110.3415

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thynk of after-clappes PASTON,I,338.110.3416

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue prevysion in all your werk , PASTON,I,338.110.3417

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye shall do the better . PASTON,I,338.110.3418

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe you . PASTON,I,338.110.3419

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_110:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Myd-lent Sonday in hast . Be your modre , M. P.
PASTON,I,338.110.3420

<Q_PAS_C_1469_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_111> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,340>

{ED:202._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_31_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Ser John Paston be this delivered in $hast . </font>
PASTON,I,340.111.3421

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I grete you wele PASTON,I,340.111.3422

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , letyng you wete that Ser John
Heuenyngham was at Norwich this day and spake wyth me at my moderes ;
PASTON,I,340.111.3423

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he wuld not +tat it shuld be vnderstand , PASTON,I,340.111.3424

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for my lord hath mad hym on of the capteynes at Cayster of +te pepill
+tat shuld kepe the wetche abought the place +tat no man shuld socour
them if my lord departed . PASTON,I,340.111.3425

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I desired hym to favour them if any man shuld come to them fro me or
you , PASTON,I,340.111.3426

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he wuld not graunte it ; PASTON,I,340.111.3427

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he desired me to write to you to vnderstand if that my lord myght
be mevyd to fynde suerte` to recompense you all wronges and ye wuld
suffre hym to entre pesibilly and the lawe after his entre` wuld deme
it you . PASTON,I,340.111.3428

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be ye avysed what answere ye wull geve . PASTON,I,340.111.3429

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , sith that +tat I spake wyth hym and the same day a feythfull
frende of owres came on-to me PASTON,I,340.111.3430

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and mevyd me if +tat my lord myght be entreted to suffre endifferent
men to kepe the place and take the profites for bothe parties till +te
right be determyned be the lawe , and my lord for his parte and ye for
your parte to fynde sufficient suerte` +tat your nowthere shuld vex ,
lette , ner trobilled the seid endifferent men to kepe pesibilly the
possession of +te seid place , and to take +te profightes on-to the
tyme it be determyned be +te lawe to his behowe +tat {to}_P the lawe
demeth it . PASTON,I,340.111.3431

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And +to seid persones +tat so endifferently kepe possession before
there entre` in-to the seid place to fynde also sufficient suerte` to
answere the parte` +tat the lawe demeth it to of +te profites , duryng
there possession , and to suffre hym pesibilly to entre , or any in his
name , whan so euer thei be required be the parte` to whom the right is
demyd . PASTON,I,340.111.3432

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Of all +tes premysses send word how ye wull be demened be as good
advyse as ye can gete , PASTON,I,340.111.3433

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and make no lengere delay ; PASTON,I,340.111.3434

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for thei must nedes haue hasty socour that be in the place ,
PASTON,I,340.111.3435

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for thei be sore hurt PASTON,I,340.111.3436

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and haue non help . PASTON,I,340.111.3437

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if thei haue hasty help it shall be the grettest wurchep +tat euer
ye had , PASTON,I,340.111.3438

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if +tei be not holpen it shall be to you a gret diswurchep ,
PASTON,I,340.111.3439

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and loke neuer to haue favour of your neybores and frendes <P_I,341>
but if this spede wele . PASTON,I,341.111.3440

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Ter-fore prend it in your mend PASTON,I,341.111.3441

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and purvey +ter-fore in hast , how so euer ye do .
PASTON,I,341.111.3442

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe you PASTON,I,341.111.3443

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send you the vittory of your elmyse , PASTON,I,341.111.3444

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and geve you and vs all grace to leve in peas . PASTON,I,341.111.3445

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Sent Gyles Evyn at ix of +te belle at nyght .
PASTON,I,341.111.3446

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Robyn came home yester evyn , PASTON,I,341.111.3447

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he brought me nowthere writyng from you ner good answere of this
mater , which grevyth me right ill +tat I haue sent you so many
massangeres and haue so febill answeres ageyn . PASTON,I,341.111.3448

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_111:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be your modere PASTON,I,341.111.3449

<Q_PAS_C_1469_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_112> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,344>

{ED:204._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_12_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I grete you wele , letyng you wete that your brothere and his felesshep
stond in grete joparte` at Cayster and lakke vetayll ;
PASTON,I,344.112.3450

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Dawbeney and Berney be dedde and diuerse othere gretly hurt ,
PASTON,I,344.112.3451

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thei fayll gonnepowder and arrowes , PASTON,I,344.112.3452

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the place sore brokyn wyth gonnes of +te toder parte ; so that ,
but thei haue hasty help , thei be like to lese bothe there lyfes and
the place , to the grettest rebuke to you that euer came to any
jentilman , PASTON,I,344.112.3453

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for euery man in this countre` marvaylleth gretly that ye suffre them
to be so longe in so gret joparte` wyth-ought help or othere remedy .
PASTON,I,344.112.3454

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Duke hath be more fervently set +ter-vp-on , and more cruell , sith
+tat Wretyll , my lord of Claraunce man , was ther than he was be-fore
, PASTON,I,344.112.3455

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hath sent for all his tenauntes from euery place , and othere ,
to be there at Cayster on Thorysday next comyng , that there is than
like to be the grettest multitude of pepill +tat came +ter yet .
PASTON,I,344.112.3456

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And thei purpose than to make a gret assaught , PASTON,I,344.112.3457

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for thei haue sent for gonnes to Lynne and othere place be the seeys
syde , +tat wyth ther gret multitude of gonnes , wyth othere shoot and
ordynaunce , ther shall no man dar appere in +te place .
PASTON,I,344.112.3458

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thei shall hold them so besy wyth ther gret pepill +tat it shall not
lye in there pore wyth-in to hold it a-geyn them wyth-ought God help
them or $thei haue hasty socour from you . PASTON,I,344.112.3459

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There-fore , as ye wull haue my blyssyng , I charge you and require you
+tat ye se your brothere be holpyn in hast . PASTON,I,344.112.3460

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if ye can haue non meane , rathere desire writyng fro my lord of
Clarens , if he be at London , or ell of my lord Archebusshop of York ,
to +te Duke of Norffolk , +tat he wull graunte them +tat be in +te
place here lyfes and ther goodes . PASTON,I,344.112.3461

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And in eschewyng of insurreccions , wyth othere inconuenyens +tat be
like to growe wyth-in the shire of Norffolk , this <P_I,345> trobelows
werd , be-cause of such conuenticles and gaderynges wyth-in the seid
shire for cause of +te seid place , thei shall suffre hym to entre
vp-on such appoyntment , or othere like , takyn be the advyse of your
councell there at London , if ye thynk this be not good , till the law
hath determyned othere-wyse ; PASTON,I,345.112.3462

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and lete hym write a-nothere letter to your brother to deliuere the
place vp-on the same appoyntment . PASTON,I,345.112.3463

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if ye thynk , as I can suppose , that the Duke of Norffolk wull not
aggre` to this be-cause he graunted this a-forn and thei in the place
wuld not accept it , than I wuld the seid massangere shuld wyth the
seid letteres bryng fro the seid lord of Clarence , or ell my lord
Archebusshop , to my lord of Oxenford othere letteres to rescuse them
forth-wyth , thoughe the said Erle of Oxenford shuld haue the place
duryng his lyffe for his labour . PASTON,I,345.112.3464

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Spare not this to be don in hast if ye wull haue there lyves and be
sett by in Norffolk , though ye shuld leys the best maner of all for
the rescuse . PASTON,I,345.112.3465

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I had lever ye lost +te lyffelode than there lyfes .
PASTON,I,345.112.3466

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye must gete a massangere of the lordes or summe othere notabill man to
bryng thes letteres . PASTON,I,345.112.3467

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Do your devour now , PASTON,I,345.112.3468

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and lete me send yow nomore massangeres for this materes ;
PASTON,I,345.112.3469

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but send me be the berere here-of more certeyn comfort than ye haue do
be all othere that I haue sent be-fore . PASTON,I,345.112.3470

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
In any wyse , lete the letteres +tat shall come to +te Erle of Oxenford
comyn wyth the letteres that shall comyn to +te Duke of Norffolk , +tat
if he wull not aggree to the ton , that ye may haue redy your rescuse
+tat it nede nomore to send +ter-fore . PASTON,I,345.112.3471

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe you . PASTON,I,345.112.3472

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_112:M4:1469:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Tuesday next before Holy Rood Day , in hast . Be your modere
PASTON,I,345.112.3473

<Q_PAS_C_1470?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_113> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,348>

{ED:206._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PROBABLY_1470,_6_JULY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston +te yongere be +tis deliuered in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,348.113.3474

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,348.113.3475

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , letyng you wete that sith ye
departed my cosyn Calthorp sent me a letter compleynyng in his wrytyng
that for asmych as he can not be payd of his tenauntes as he hat be
before this tyme he purposith to lesse his howshold and to leve the
streytlyere ; wherfore he desireth me to purvey for your suster Anne .
PASTON,I,348.113.3476

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seth she waxeth hygh , PASTON,I,348.113.3477

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it were tyme to purvey here a mariage . PASTON,I,348.113.3478

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I marveyll what causeth hym to write so now : PASTON,I,348.113.3479

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
owthere she hath displeased hym PASTON,I,348.113.3480

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ell he hath takyn here wyth summe diffaught . PASTON,I,348.113.3481

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore I pray you comune wyth my cosyn Clere at London
PASTON,I,348.113.3482

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wete how he is disposyd to here ward , PASTON,I,348.113.3483

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word , PASTON,I,348.113.3484

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I shall be fayn to send for here PASTON,I,348.113.3485

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyth me she shall but lese here tyme ; PASTON,I,348.113.3486

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wyth-ought she wull be the better occupied she shall oftyn tymes
meve me and put me in gret inquietenesse . PASTON,I,348.113.3487

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembre what labour I had wyth your suster . PASTON,I,348.113.3488

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore do your parte to help here forth that may be to your wurchep
and myn . PASTON,I,348.113.3489

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , remembre the bill +tat I spake to you of to gete of your
brothere of such money as he hath receyvid of me sith your faderes
disseas . PASTON,I,348.113.3490

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Se your vnkyll Mautby if ye may , PASTON,I,348.113.3491

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me summe tydynges as sone as ye may . PASTON,I,348.113.3492

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe you . PASTON,I,348.113.3493

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_113:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Fryday next be-fore Sent Thomas of Caunterbery in hast . Be
your moder PASTON,I,348.113.3494

<Q_PAS_C_1470_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_114> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,350>

{ED:208._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1470,_28_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,350.114.3495

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , PASTON,I,350.114.3496

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I send you be the berere here-of all the syluer vessell that your
graundam maketh so mych of , which she seid I had of myn husbond and
myn husbond shuld haue had it of his fadere . PASTON,I,350.114.3497

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where as she seid +tat I shuld had a garneys , I had ner see neuer
more than I send you ; +tat is to say , ij plateres , vj dysshes , and
vj sawceres . PASTON,I,350.114.3498

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The ij plateres weyn xliij vnce di. , PASTON,I,350.114.3499

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +te vj dysshes weyn lxxiiij vnce di. , PASTON,I,350.114.3500

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the sawceres weyn xvij vnce j quarter ; PASTON,I,350.114.3501

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I marvayll that ye sent me not word what an vnce of syluer is worth
at London , PASTON,I,350.114.3502

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it had be lesse joparte` to haue sold it here and haue sent you the
money than the plate . PASTON,I,350.114.3503

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I myght haue sold it here for iij s. an vnce , &c. ,
PASTON,I,350.114.3504

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
summa xx li. iiij s. iij d . PASTON,I,350.114.3505

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be ware how that ye spend it but in acquityng you ageyn such as ye be
in daungere to , or abought the good speed of your materes ;
PASTON,I,350.114.3506

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for but if ye take odere heed to your exspences ye shall do yourself
and your frendes gret diswurchep and enpoueryssh so them +tat non of vs
shall help othere , to owre elmys grete comfort . PASTON,I,350.114.3507

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is vnderstond right now in +tis countre` be such as cleyme to be
frendly to you in what grete daungere and nede ye stande in , bothe to
diuerse of your frendes and to your elmyse . PASTON,I,350.114.3508

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also it is noysed +tat I haue departed so largely wyth you +tat I
may nowthere help you my-self ner non of my frendes , which is no
wurchep and causeth men to set the lesse be vs . PASTON,I,350.114.3509

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at +tis tyme it compellith me to breke vp howshold and to sogeorn ,
which I am right loth to haue do if I myght othere-wyse haue chosyn ,
PASTON,I,350.114.3510

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it caused gret clamour in +tis town +tat I shall do so ,
PASTON,I,350.114.3511

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it shuld not haue neded if I had restreyned whan I myght .
PASTON,I,350.114.3512

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Ter-fore , for Goddes sake , take hede here-to PASTON,I,350.114.3513

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be ware from hens forth , PASTON,I,350.114.3514

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue deliuered and sent you bothyn my parte , the dedes and
yowres , and not restreyned nowthere-2 for my-self nere the dede .
Where-fore I thynk we spede and fare all the wers ,
PASTON,I,350.114.3515

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is a fowle slaundere that he was so wurchepfull beried and his
qwethword not parfourmed , and so litill do for hym sithen ;
PASTON,I,350.114.3516

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now though I wuld do for hym I haue right not beside my lyffelode
+tat I may make any chevyssans wyth <P_I,351> wyth-ought grete
slaundere , PASTON,I,351.114.3517

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my lyffelode encreassith evill PASTON,I,351.114.3518

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am fayn to takyn Mautby in myn owyn hand and to set vp husbondry
+ter , PASTON,I,351.114.3519

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and how it shall profite me God knowyth . PASTON,I,351.114.3520

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The fermour owyth me lxxx li. and more ; PASTON,I,351.114.3521

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
whan I shall haue it I wote neuer . PASTON,I,351.114.3522

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore be neuer the boldere in yowre exspences for any help +tat $ye
trost to haue of me , PASTON,I,351.114.3523

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wull fro hens-forth bryng my-self ought of such daungere as I
stond in for your sakes , and do fore the dede and for them +tat I haue
my goodes of . PASTON,I,351.114.3524

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For till I do so I know for certeyn +tat I shall fayll grace and
displeas God , how haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,351.114.3525

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Sent Symondes Day and Judes in hast . Be your moder
PASTON,I,351.114.3526

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I send +gow ij scherte clothys , iche of iij +gardys of +te
fynest +tat is in thys towne . PASTON,I,351.114.3527

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I xuld a do hem mad here PASTON,I,351.114.3528

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yt xuld a be to long here +ge xuld an had hem .
PASTON,I,351.114.3529

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gowr awnte ore sum othere good woman wule do here almes vpon +gow fore
+te makyng of them . PASTON,I,351.114.3530

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thank +gow fore the gowne +tat +ge gaue me . PASTON,I,351.114.3531

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Halowmesse Day I hope xale be wurshuped there-wyth .
PASTON,I,351.114.3532

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At reuerens of God , be ware PASTON,I,351.114.3533

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and take hed to soche thynggys as is wretyn wyth-ynne thys letter .
PASTON,I,351.114.3534

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Telle +gowr brothere +tat the mony is not +get cownyd +tat I xuld send
hym fore the sarsenet and damaske +tat I spake to hym foore .
PASTON,I,351.114.3535

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore the damaske , yt may be forebore tylle +te nexte terme ,
PASTON,I,351.114.3536

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as fore +te sarsenet , I woold haue yt and yt mythe be , fore I goo
in my rentys . PASTON,I,351.114.3537

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Late +gowr brothere see thys letter . PASTON,I,351.114.3538

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore +gowr syster , I can send +gow no good tydynggys of here .
PASTON,I,351.114.3539

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_114:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God make here a good wooman . PASTON,I,351.114.3540

<Q_PAS_C_1470?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_115> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,356>

{ED:210._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_PERHAPS_1470,_15_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,356.115.3541

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blissyng and myn , letyng you wete that I send you
be the berere here-of xl li. of ryall , which I haue chevysshed and
borwed for you be-cause I wuld not take that was leyd ought for you at
Norwich ; PASTON,I,356.115.3542

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as I am enformed be Mayster John Smyth , the chauncellere , and
othere that we ben all a-cursed that we haue thus mynystred the dedes
godes wyth-ought licence or auctorite` , PASTON,I,356.115.3543

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wene we spede all the wers there-fore . PASTON,I,356.115.3544

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At the reuerence of God , gete you a licens of my lord of Caunterbery ,
in dischargyng of my conscyens and yowres , to mynystre a certeyn summe
of iij or iiij=c= marc. , enfourmyng hym how that your lyffelod hath
stond this ij yere in such trobill +tat ye myght right nought haue of
it , ner yet can take of it wyth-ought ye shuld hurt your tenauntes .
PASTON,I,356.115.3545

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thei haue so ben vexid be on-trew meanes be-fore this tyme ,
PASTON,I,356.115.3546

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye haue many grete materes on hand PASTON,I,356.115.3547

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and may not haue to bere them ought ner to save your right wyth-ought
ye myght for a tyme takyn of your faderes godes . PASTON,I,356.115.3548

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this , I hope , shall discharge owre conscyens of +tat we haue
mynestred and spend be-fore ; PASTON,I,356.115.3549

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we haue nomore to acquite this xl li. and bere all othere charges
but the xlvij li. that your vnkyll and ye is prevy to , +tat was leyd
vp at Norwich . PASTON,I,356.115.3550

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wuld ye were ware of large yeftes and rewardes gevyng , as othere
folkes avyse you to do ; PASTON,I,356.115.3551

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for though ye haue nede thei wull not be right redy to help you of
there owyn , PASTON,I,356.115.3552

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat ye may vnderstond be that +tat thei haue taken a-wey from you
be-fore this tyme . PASTON,I,356.115.3553

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wuld not in no wyse ye shuld put your-self in no daungere to hym but
as litill as {in}_P ye may ; PASTON,I,356.115.3554

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if ye do it shall be right wele remembred you here-after .
PASTON,I,356.115.3555

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And be ware how ye ben bownd in any obligacion to any creature but if
it be leyd in endifferent <P_I,357> handes and trosty for yowre part ;
PASTON,I,357.115.3556

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and remembre to gete the obligacion +tat ye mad to the Duchesse of
Suffolk , PASTON,I,357.115.3557

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for though it be in my lord Chauncelleres hande it is iopartows
be-cause of perell of deth . PASTON,I,357.115.3558

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , vnderstand wele the poyntes that ben in my cosyn Arblasteres
lettere that arn wretyn in yowre , PASTON,I,357.115.3559

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and purvey redily there-fore for your owyn a-vayll .
PASTON,I,357.115.3560

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , send me home answeres of suche materes as arn now sent you
bothen-2 $by mowth and wrytyng at this tyme as hastly as ye can ,
PASTON,I,357.115.3561

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ell it shall hurt you more than ye or I can yet vnderstonde .
PASTON,I,357.115.3562

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , me semyth if ye shuld not comyn home this Crystmesse , or if ye
shuld be at my lady of Suffolk , it $were necessary to haue Playtere
there wyth you if ye shuld engroos any appoyntmentes wyth here at that
tyme , PASTON,I,357.115.3563

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she is sotill PASTON,I,357.115.3564

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath sotill councell wyth here ; PASTON,I,357.115.3565

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +terfore it were wele do ye shuld haue summe wyth you +tat shuld be
of your councell . PASTON,I,357.115.3566

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If John Paston be wyth you at London , desire hym to take hede to yowre
materes and in what case thei ben left at your departyng , +tat if nede
be he may help you to labore for such causes as Wykes shall telle you
be mowth ; PASTON,I,357.115.3567

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he be not wyth you and ye wull , I shall send hym to you .
PASTON,I,357.115.3568

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , spare of the xl li. asmych as ye may , that ye may parfourme vp
the mony that the Duchesse of Suffolk shuld haue in cas that it may not
be gadered of the lyvelode . PASTON,I,357.115.3569

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Send home Wykes a sone as ye can , and how ye wull +tat I do in your
materes and lyvelode at home . PASTON,I,357.115.3570

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,357.115.3571

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:28?
LETTER:PASTON_115:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Thursday next after Sent Martyn . Be your modere
PASTON,I,357.115.3572

<Q_PAS_C_1470?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_116> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,360>

{ED:213._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PROBABLY_1470,_7_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquyre , be +tis delivered . </font>
PASTON,I,360.116.3573

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,360.116.3574

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , desyryng you to send me word how
that your brothere doth . PASTON,I,360.116.3575

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was told here that he shuld haue be ded , which caused many folkes ,
and me bothyn , to be right hevy . PASTON,I,360.116.3576

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also it was told me this day that ye were hurt be affray that was mad
vp-on you be feles disgysed . PASTON,I,360.116.3577

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther-fore in any wyse send me word in hast how your brothere doth , and
ye bothyn , PASTON,I,360.116.3578

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I shall not ben wele at eas till I know how +tat ye do .
PASTON,I,360.116.3579

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for Goddes love lete your brothere and ye be ware how +tat ye
walken and wyth what felesshep ye etyn or drynkyn , and in what place ;
PASTON,I,360.116.3580

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was seid here pleynly that your brothere was poysoned .
PASTON,I,360.116.3581

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this weke was on of Drayton wyth me , PASTON,I,360.116.3582

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told me that there were diuerse of the tenauntes seid that thei
wost not what to do if that your brothere come home , and there was on
of the Duk of Suffolk men by PASTON,I,360.116.3583

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and bad them not feryn , for his wey shuld be shorted and he shuld come
there . Wherfore in any wyse be ware of your-self ,
PASTON,I,360.116.3584

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I can thynk thei geve no <P_I,361> fors what to do to be wenged and
to put you fro your entent that thei myght haue here wyll in Ser John
Fastolfes lond . PASTON,I,361.116.3585

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Thynke what gret sorow it $shuld be to $me and any <em> ... you </em>
. PASTON,I,361.116.3586

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had leuer ye had neuer know +te lond . PASTON,I,361.116.3587

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Remembre it was +te distruccion of your fader . PASTON,I,361.116.3588

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Trost not mych vp-on promyses of lordes now a days that ye shuld be the
suerere of +te favour of +ter men ; PASTON,I,361.116.3589

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for there was a man , and a lordes sone , seid but late and toke it for
an exampill , +tat Ser Roberd Harecourt had the good will of the lordes
after +ter comyng in , and yet wyth-in short tyme after here men kylled
hym in his owyn place . PASTON,I,361.116.3590

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A mannes deth is litill set by now a days . PASTON,I,361.116.3591

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore be ware of symulacion , PASTON,I,361.116.3592

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thei wull speke right fayr to you +tat wuld ye ferd right evyll .
PASTON,I,361.116.3593

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The blissid Trynyte` haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,I,361.116.3594

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in gret hast the Saterday next after Sent Andrewe .
PASTON,I,361.116.3595

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lete this letter be brent whan ye haue vnderstond it .
PASTON,I,361.116.3596

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I pray you send me iiij suger lofes , ich of them of iij li. ,
and iiij li. of dates if thei be newe . PASTON,I,361.116.3597

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you x s. be the berere here-of ; PASTON,I,361.116.3598

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if ye pay more I shall pay it you ageyn whan ye come home .
PASTON,I,361.116.3599

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And forgete not to send me word be +te berere here-of how ye don ,
PASTON,I,361.116.3600

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and remembre +te bylles and remembrauns for the maner of Gresham that I
wrote to your brother fore . PASTON,I,361.116.3601

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26?
LETTER:PASTON_116:M4:1470?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your modere PASTON,I,361.116.3602

<Q_PAS_C_1472?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_117> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,361>

{ED:214._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_ABOUT_1472}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele , letyng you wete that +ter was told me a thyng in
your absens +tat goth right nere myn hert , be a wurchepfull man and
such on as ye wuld beleve and geffe credence to , and that owyth you
right good wille , which if it had comyn to myn remembraunce at your
departere I wuld haue spoke to you of it most specially befor all
othere materes ; PASTON,I,361.117.3603

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I am so <P_I,362> trobilled in my mende wyth your materes , that
thei be so delayd and take no better conclusion , and wyth +te ontrowth
+tat is in seruauntes now a days but if +ter maysteres take better heed
to +ter handes , that such thynges as I wuld rathest remembre I sonest
for-gete . PASTON,I,362.117.3604

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was told me that ye haue sold Sporle wood , of a right credebill and
$wurchepfull man ; PASTON,I,362.117.3605

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat was right hevy +tat ye shuld be know of such disposicion ,
consideryng how your fadere , whos sowle God assoyll , cherysshed in
euery maner his woodes . PASTON,I,362.117.3606

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for the more preffe +tat +tis shuld be trought , the forseid person
told me +tat it was told hym of on +tat was toward Ser William
Yeluerton , to whom Richard Calle shuld haue seid in thes termes , +tat
Sporle wood shuld be sold and +tat it shuld comyn now in-to Cristen
mennes handes ; which if it were knowyn shuld cause bothyn your elmyse
and your frendes to thynk +tat ye dede it for right gret nede , or ell
+tat ye shuld be a wastour and wuld wast your lyvelode .
PASTON,I,362.117.3607

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye had do so in Ser John Fastolfes lyffelode men shuld haue supposid
that ye had do it of good pollice` be-cause of +te onsuerte` +tat it
stant in , to haue takyn +tat ye had myght of it duryng your possession
, to haue boryn ought the daungeres of it wyth the same ;
PASTON,I,362.117.3608

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for to do +tus of your owyn lyffelode men shall thyng +tat ye do it
for pure nede . PASTON,I,362.117.3609

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in asmych as it is so ner your most elmyse ere it shall be to you
+te grettere vylney and shame to all your frendes , and the grettest
coragyng and plesere +tat can be to your elmyse . PASTON,I,362.117.3610

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For if ye be thus disposid ye shall make them and all othere certeyn of
+tat that be-for this tyme thei haue ben in dought {of}_P , and cause
them to purpose the more cruelly ageyn you . Where-fore , in eschewyng
of +te greet slaundre and inconveniens +tat may grow +ter-of , I
require you and more-ouer charge you vp-on my blissyng , and as ye wull
haue my good will , that if any such sale or bargany be mad be your
assent or wyth-ought , be Calle or any othere in your name , that ye
restreyn it ; PASTON,I,362.117.3611

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wuld not for a m=l= marc. +tat it were vnderstond +tat ye were of
+tat disposicion , ner that ye were comyn to so gret nede which shuld
cause $you to do so , PASTON,I,362.117.3612

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for euery shuld thynk +tat it were thurgh your owyn mys-gouernaunce .
PASTON,I,362.117.3613

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore I charge you , if any such bargayn be mad , that ye send a
bill as hastly as ye can to Herry Halman , +tat he do all such as haue
mad or takyn +tat bargayn seasse , and felle non of +te wood vp-on peyn
that may falle +ter-of . PASTON,I,362.117.3614

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And how so euer wull councell you the $contrary , do as I advyse you in
this behalffe PASTON,I,362.117.3615

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ell trost neuer to haue comfort of me . PASTON,I,362.117.3616

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if I may knowe ye be of such disposicion , and I leve ij yere it
shall disavayll you in my liffelode ccc marc . PASTON,I,362.117.3617

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore send me word be +te berere here-of wheder ye haue assent to
any <P_I,363> such thyng or nought , and how that ye be disposid to do
there-in ; PASTON,I,363.117.3618

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I shal not be quiete in myn hert till I vnderstond yow of +te
$contrary disposicion . PASTON,I,363.117.3619

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30?
LETTER:PASTON_117:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your moder PASTON,I,363.117.3620

<Q_PAS_C_1472_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_118> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,363>

{ED:215._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1472,_5_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquyere , be this deliuered . </font>
PASTON,I,363.118.3621

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I grete you wele PASTON,I,363.118.3622

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , letyng you wete that the woman
that sewyth the appell ageyn your brothere and his men is comyn to
London to calle there-vp-on , PASTON,I,363.118.3623

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and whan that she shuld come to London there was deliuered here c s.
for to sewe wyth ; so that , be that I here in this countre` , she wull
not leve it but that she shall calle there-vp-on such tyme as shall be
to your most rebuke , but if ye ley the better wetch .
PASTON,I,363.118.3624

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She hath evill councell , PASTON,I,363.118.3625

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +tat wull see you gretely vttered , PASTON,I,363.118.3626

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +tat ye may vnderstond be the money that was take here whan she
came vp ; PASTON,I,363.118.3627

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye shuld fynd it , I knowe it wele , if thei myght haue you at
avauntag . PASTON,I,363.118.3628

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There-fore , for Goddes sake , make diligent serge be the advyse of
your councell that there be no necglicens in you in this matere ner
othere for diffaught of labour , PASTON,I,363.118.3629

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and call vp-on your brothere PASTON,I,363.118.3630

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and telle hym that I send hym Goddes blyssyng and myn ,
PASTON,I,363.118.3631

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and desire hym that he wull now a while , whill he hath the lordes at
his entent , that he seke the meanes to make an ende of his materes ;
PASTON,I,363.118.3632

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for his elmyses arn gretly coraged now of late - PASTON,I,363.118.3633

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
what is the cause I knowe not . PASTON,I,363.118.3634

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I pray you speke to Playtere that +ter may be fownd a meane +tat
the shereffe or the gaderere of the grene wax may be discharged of
certeyn issues that renne vp-on Fastolf for Mariottes matere ,
PASTON,I,363.118.3635

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for the balyffe was at hym this weke PASTON,I,363.118.3636

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and shuld haue streyned hym , but +tat he promysed hym +tat he shuld
wyth-in this viij days labore the meanes that he shuld be discharged or
ell he must content hym , &c . PASTON,I,363.118.3637

<P_I,364>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I send you be the berere here-of , closed in this letter , v s. of
gold , PASTON,I,364.118.3638

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and pray you to bey me a sugere loffe and dates and almaundes and send
it me home , PASTON,I,364.118.3639

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if ye beware any more money , whan ye come home I shall pait you
ageyn . PASTON,I,364.118.3640

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Gost kepe you bothyn PASTON,I,364.118.3641

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and deliuere you of your elmyse . PASTON,I,364.118.3642

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Sent Agas Day in hast . PASTON,I,364.118.3643

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I pray you speke to Mayster Rogere for my sorepe ,
PASTON,I,364.118.3644

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I had neuer more nede there-of ; PASTON,I,364.118.3645

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_118:M4:1472:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send it me as hastly as ye can . PASTON,I,364.118.3646

<Q_PAS_C_1472?_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_119> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,366>

{ED:217._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PERHAPS_1472,_23_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston +te yongere be +tis deliuered in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,366.119.3647

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I grete you wele , letyng you wete that on Saterday last past wyth-in
nyght the felesshep at Cayster tokyn ought of Mautby Cloos xvj shep of
diuerse mennes +tat were put there-in to pasture ,
PASTON,I,366.119.3648

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thei ledde them a-wey so that euery man ferith to put any bestes or
catell +ter-in , to my grete hurt and discoragyng of my fermour +tat is
now of late come theder . PASTON,I,366.119.3649

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the seid evyll disposed persones affraid my seid fermour as he came
from Yarmoth this weke , PASTON,I,366.119.3650

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and shotte at hym , +tat if he had not had a good hors he had be like
to haue ben in joparte` of his lyfe ; so that be thes rewle I am like
to lese +te profite of +tat lyfelode this yere but if there be purueyd
the hastyere remedy . PASTON,I,366.119.3651

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thei threte so my men that I dar send non theder to gadere it .
PASTON,I,366.119.3652

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thei stuffe and vetaylle sore the place , PASTON,I,366.119.3653

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it is reparted here that my lady of Norfolk seth she wull not leas
it in no wyse . PASTON,I,366.119.3654

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the Duchesse of Suffolkes men sey that she wull not departe from
Heylesdon ner Drayton , PASTON,I,366.119.3655

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
she wuld rathere departe from money ; PASTON,I,366.119.3656

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but +tat shuld not be wurchepfull for you , PASTON,I,366.119.3657

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for men shull not than set be you . PASTON,I,366.119.3658

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There-for I wuld avyse you to haue rathere the lyvelod than the money .
PASTON,I,366.119.3659

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye shall mown excuse you be the college , which must contynue
perpetuall , PASTON,I,366.119.3660

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and money is sone lost and spent whan +tat lyfelode abideth .
PASTON,I,366.119.3661

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I lete you wete that Hastynges hath entred ageyn in-to his fee
of +te constabyll-shep of +te Castell of Norwich be the vertu of his
patent +tat he had of Kyng Herry , PASTON,I,366.119.3662

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I here sey he hath it graunted to hym and his heyeres .
PASTON,I,366.119.3663

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There was at his entres your vnkill Will and othere jentilmen dwellyng
in Norwych . PASTON,I,366.119.3664

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Tis was do be-fore +tat ye sent me the letter be Pers .
PASTON,I,366.119.3665

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I had forgetyn to haue sent you word +ter-of . PASTON,I,366.119.3666

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe you . PASTON,I,366.119.3667

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_119:M4:1472?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn +te Friday next after Sent Luke . Be your moder
PASTON,I,366.119.3668

<Q_PAS_C_1470_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_120> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,367>

{ED:218._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1470,_19_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquyere . </font> PASTON,I,367.120.3669

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele PASTON,I,367.120.3670

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you Goddes blyssyng and myn , letyng you wete that I haue sent
to Doctour Aleyn wyffe to haue spoke wyth here as ye desired me , and
she was so syke that she myght not comyn . PASTON,I,367.120.3671

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But she sent here brodere elaw to me , PASTON,I,367.120.3672

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I lete hym wete the cause why that I wuld haue spoke wyth here as
ye desired me ; PASTON,I,367.120.3673

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me that he shuld haue brought me wrytyng this day from here
be vij of the belle how +tat she wull that ye shuld haue labored or do
for here , PASTON,I,367.120.3674

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he came nomore at me . PASTON,I,367.120.3675

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse she sent me an nothere massangere PASTON,I,367.120.3676

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete me wete that here husbond had sent here a letter the same
nyght from London that she shuld come vp as fast as she cowde to labour
to the lordes there in here propre person , $wherefore she myght geve
me non answere ner send you word how that ye shuld do till $that she
had spokyn wyth here husbond or had othere writyng from hym .
PASTON,I,367.120.3677

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I thynk <em> that she </em> hath othere councell that avyseth
here to labour to othere than to you . PASTON,I,367.120.3678

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wuld not +tat <em> ye were </em> to besy in no such materes $till the
werd were more suere , and in any wyse that <em> while my </em> lord
+te Chauncellere is in $ocupacion labore to haue an ende of your grete
materes and <em> ... </em> macion and abide not $vp-on trost of an
nothere seson , PASTON,I,367.120.3679

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so shall ye be disseyved <em> as ye haue </em> ben be-fore this
tyme . PASTON,I,367.120.3680

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$I haue vnderstand sith that ye departed that +ter <em> ... </em> mad
to subplant $you . PASTON,I,367.120.3681

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore , for Goddes sake , in this onstabil werd labore er <em> ...
</em> materes that thei may $haue summe good conclusion ,
PASTON,I,367.120.3682

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that shall make <em> your elmyse </em> fere you ,
PASTON,I,367.120.3683

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ell thei shall <em> ... </em> kepe you low and in trobill .
PASTON,I,367.120.3684

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if any mater <em> .. </em> be act of parlement and $profight lete
your bill be mad redy , PASTON,I,367.120.3685

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lese not your $materes fore othere mennes , PASTON,I,367.120.3686

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if your elmyse may profight now at this tyme ye shall be $in wers
case than {in}_P euer ye were be-fore . PASTON,I,367.120.3687

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All the $contray wenyth <P_I,368> that ye shuld now ouercomyn all your
trobill , which if ye do not ye shall fall $ought of conceyte .
PASTON,I,368.120.3688

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I write as wele this to your brothere as to you . PASTON,I,368.120.3689

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore lete no diffaught be in you nowthere . PASTON,I,368.120.3690

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it was lete me to wete syth that ye departed , of such as were
your frendes and were conuersaunte wyth the toder parte` , that +ter
was mad labore , and like to be concluded , that the eleccion of the
knyghtes of +te shire shuld be chaunged and new certificat mad , and
John Jenney set there-in . PASTON,I,368.120.3691

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There-fore do your devour to vnderstond the trought as sone as ye can ,
PASTON,I,368.120.3692

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the seid Jenney this day rideth vp to London ward ,
PASTON,I,368.120.3693

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I <em> suppose because </em> of the same . PASTON,I,368.120.3694

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you remembre your brothere to send me the evydence and
remembraunce towchyng the maner of Gresham which that I wrote to hym be
Juddy , PASTON,I,368.120.3695

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send them be sum suere man . PASTON,I,368.120.3696

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , take hede to the labour of your vnkyll , PASTON,I,368.120.3697

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hath had right straunge langage of your brothere of late to
right wurchepfull persones . PASTON,I,368.120.3698

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Terfore werk wysely , PASTON,I,368.120.3699

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be ware wham that ye lete know your councell .
PASTON,I,368.120.3700

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , remembre Lomnours matere as ye may do there-in ,
PASTON,I,368.120.3701

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word in hast . PASTON,I,368.120.3702

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mayster Roos shal be at London the next weke ; PASTON,I,368.120.3703

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
there-fore ye shall not nede to make my lord to write .
PASTON,I,368.120.3704

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But whan that he comyth , if my lord can make hym to put it in
indifferent and wurchepfull men , than that it pleasith my lord to
write to them that thei shuld take it vp-on them to set a rewle ther-in
. PASTON,I,368.120.3705

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wyth-ought better advyse , me semyth it were wele do .
PASTON,I,368.120.3706

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Holy Gost be your gyde PASTON,I,368.120.3707

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send yow good spede and councell , PASTON,I,368.120.3708

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and deliuere you ought of all trobill and disseas to his plesere .
PASTON,I,368.120.3709

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Thursday next be-fore Sent Kateryn , in hast .
PASTON,I,368.120.3710

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Recomaund me to my mastres Kateryn , PASTON,I,368.120.3711

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send me word how ye don , &c . PASTON,I,368.120.3712

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your moder PASTON,I,368.120.3713

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Do my lord on Sonday send for the shereffes debute` to wete how thei be
disposid for certificate of +te knyghtes , PASTON,I,368.120.3714

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +ter shall vnderstand if thei be eschaunged ; PASTON,I,368.120.3715

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for on Sonday at nyght or on Monday it shall be put in
PASTON,I,368.120.3716

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $after it is put in ther is no remedy . PASTON,I,368.120.3717

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_120:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Geney seth he wull attempt the law there-in . PASTON,I,368.120.3718

<Q_PAS_C_1470_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_121> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,368>

{ED:219._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1470,_23_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquyere , be this delivered . </font>
PASTON,I,368.121.3719

<P_I,369>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I grete you wele , letyng you wete that Doctour Aleyn wyffe hath be
wyth me and desired me to write to you to desire you to be good mayster
to here husbond and to here in here materes , PASTON,I,369.121.3720

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she tellith me that here trost is full in you ,
PASTON,I,369.121.3721

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if she myght haue walked she shuld haue come to haue spoke wyth you
or than ye departed . PASTON,I,369.121.3722

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I pray you do your devour for here , PASTON,I,369.121.3723

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I conceyve that she feyneth not , notwythstondyng that I had here
in suspecion , as I haue wretyn to you be-fore , be-cause that she came
not . PASTON,I,369.121.3724

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I conceyve now the trought , and +tat sikenesse caused that she
absent here . PASTON,I,369.121.3725

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I pray you help here , PASTON,I,369.121.3726

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so God help me I haue right gret pete` on here
PASTON,I,369.121.3727

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is right gret almes to help here , PASTON,I,369.121.3728

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trow she wull put here most trost and sewe speciall to you .
PASTON,I,369.121.3729

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I wuld ye shuld desire your brothere to be good mayster on-to here
, PASTON,I,369.121.3730

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I suppose be that tyme ye haue herd here excuse in such materes as
{in}_P he shuld be displeased wyth here husbond ye shall hold you
pleased . PASTON,I,369.121.3731

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God kepe you PASTON,I,369.121.3732

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send you hes blyssyng wyth myn . PASTON,I,369.121.3733

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_121:M4:1470:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Sent Clementes day at nyght , in hast . Be your moder
PASTON,I,369.121.3734

<Q_PAS_C_1475_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_122> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,371>

{ED:221._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1475,_28_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Ser John Paston , knyght , be thys delyueryd in hast ... A=o=
xiiij=o= . </font> PASTON,I,371.122.3735

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Jesus PASTON,I,371.122.3736

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght welbelouyd son , I gret yow well PASTON,I,371.122.3737

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send yow Goddys blyssyng and myn , letyng yow wete +tat I marveyle
+tat I have had no wrytyng from yow sethyn ye sent me +te lettyr +tat
ye sent me be-for the Kyngys comyng to Norwych , in the wyche lettyr ye
wrot to me +tat ye shuld a wretyn a-geyn to me or ye shuld de-part owt
of London . PASTON,I,371.122.3738

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It ys so +tat yowyr hunkyll William hath do payd to my cosyn Robard
Clere but iiij=xx= li. of the c li. , PASTON,I,371.122.3739

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and <P_I,372> he wol no mor pay but yff he hath delyueraunc of my
pleggys , the wych war leyd to plegg for xx=ti= li. , the wych ben
bettyr . PASTON,I,372.122.3740

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wot well be-cause of the good well +tat he owyt to me , as ye know ,
he wold ben in possessyon ther-off . PASTON,I,372.122.3741

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My cosyn Robard Cler was her wyth me thys weke PASTON,I,372.122.3742

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and told me +tat yf he wold a deliueryd them he myth an had +te seyd xx
li. ; PASTON,I,372.122.3743

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he seyd he wold nowt tyll he had spokyn wyth me .
PASTON,I,372.122.3744

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be my trowth I fynd hym ryght kyndly dysposyd to yow and to me bothe ,
PASTON,I,372.122.3745

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I have desyryd hym to kepe styll +te pleggys in hys possessyon
tyll I have word from yow how ye ar agreyd wyth yowyr hunkyll for the
payment of the seyd mony . PASTON,I,372.122.3746

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wen veryly +tat ye have fownd hym swerte` for alle ;
PASTON,I,372.122.3747

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yff ye have soo do , I wold ye shuld wryt to yowyr hunkyll ther-for
+tat I myth have my pleggys a-geyn , PASTON,I,372.122.3748

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I war loth that they shuld com in hys fyngyrs .
PASTON,I,372.122.3749

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for Sporyl wood , be-for the Kyngys comyng in-to Norffolk I
myth an had chapmen to a bowtyd a gret for xij=xx= mark ,
PASTON,I,372.122.3750

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and now ther wol no man by yt a gret by-cause of +te gret good +tat the
pepyll ys leyd to for +te Kyng . Wer-for we ar a-bowth to retaylyt as
well as we may , and as well as yt can be browth too , and send yow
word how we shall do as astely as I may . PASTON,I,372.122.3751

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for yowyr barly in thys cuntre` , yt $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be sold
a-bove x d. or xj d. ; PASTON,I,372.122.3752

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+tat ys the gretest prys of barly her , PASTON,I,372.122.3753

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and but yt be at a bettyr prys I purpose for to do yt malt .
PASTON,I,372.122.3754

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for mony , I cowd not get yet of Pecok but iij li. ,
PASTON,I,372.122.3755

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seth +tat , be than +tat +te owt chargys be boryn and +te
repracion of +te myll at Wyntyrton , we ar lyke to haue but lytyll mor
mony be-syd the barly . PASTON,I,372.122.3756

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Malt ys sold her but for xiij d. , and whet ij s. or xxvj d. at thys
time and otys xij d . PASTON,I,372.122.3757

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ther ys non owtlod suffyrd to goo owth of thys cuntre` as yet ;
PASTON,I,372.122.3758

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
the Kyng hath comaundyd +tat ther shuld non gon owth of thys lond .
PASTON,I,372.122.3759

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I fer me +tat we shall have ryth a straung ward , PASTON,I,372.122.3760

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God $amend $it {TEXT:a-mendyd} whan hys wyll ys . PASTON,I,372.122.3761

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I thank yow for the flakons +tat ye sent me ; PASTON,I,372.122.3762

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
they be ryght good PASTON,I,372.122.3763

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and plesyth me ryght well . PASTON,I,372.122.3764

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shall be as good an huswyff for yow as I can , and as I wold be for
my-selff . PASTON,I,372.122.3765

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Send me word how ye doo of yowyr syknes +tat ye had on yowyr hey and
yowyr lege ; PASTON,I,372.122.3766

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yff God wol nowt ssuffyr yow to have helth , thank hym ther-off
PASTON,I,372.122.3767

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and $take $it {TEXT:takyt} passhently , PASTON,I,372.122.3768

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and com hom a-geyn to me , PASTON,I,372.122.3769

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and we shall lyve to-gedyr as God woll geve vs grase to do .
PASTON,I,372.122.3770

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as I have seyd to yow be-for thys , I wold ye war delyueryd of my
Mastres A. H. , PASTON,I,372.122.3771

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and than I wold trost +tat ye shuld do the bettyr .
PASTON,I,372.122.3772

<P_I,373>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for the bokys that ye desyryd to have of Syr Jamys , the best of
alle and the fayrest ys cleymyd , PASTON,I,373.122.3773

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ner yt ys not in hys jnventory . PASTON,I,373.122.3774

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shall a-say to get yt for yow and I may . PASTON,I,373.122.3775

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The prys of +te todyr bokys be-syd that ys xx s. vj d. , the wych I
send yow a byll of . PASTON,I,373.122.3776

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yf ye lyk be +te prys of them and ye wol haue them , send me word ;
PASTON,I,373.122.3777

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also I pray yow send me an ansswere of thys lettyr be-cause I thynk
long seth I hard from yow . PASTON,I,373.122.3778

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God have yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,373.122.3779

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Mawdby on the Sattyrday nex be-forn the Purificacion of Owyr
Lady the xiiij yer of Kyng Edward the iiij=t= . PASTON,I,373.122.3780

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_122:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowyr modyr PASTON,I,373.122.3781

<Q_PAS_C_1475_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_123> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,373>

{ED:222._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1475,_28_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , sqwyer , be thys delyueryd in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,373.123.3782

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Jesus PASTON,I,373.123.3783

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I gret yow well PASTON,I,373.123.3784

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send yow Goddys blyssyng and myn , letyng yow wet +tat my cosyn
Robard Clere was her wyth me thys weke and told me +tat he was nowt
payd of the mony +tat ye know +tat was borowd of hys modyr and of hym
but iiij=xx= li . PASTON,I,373.123.3785

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Te xx li. +tat my pleggys ly for ys on-payd . PASTON,I,373.123.3786

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He seyd +tat he was desyryd to delyuere my pleggys and to have be payd
+te xx li. , but he wold not tyll he had spokyn wyth me be-cause of +te
promys +tat he had mad to me be-for +tat he shuld not delyuer them to
non wyth-owt my assent . PASTON,I,373.123.3787

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I seyd to hym +tat I suppose veryly +tat yowyr brodyr hys a-greyd wyth
yowyr hunkyll +tat he shuld paye all the hole , PASTON,I,373.123.3788

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I suppose he hath a swerte` for ale +tat and more .
PASTON,I,373.123.3789

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold vndyrstond how yt ys , and how +tat my seyd cosyn shall be
content , PASTON,I,373.123.3790

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I war loth to lese my pleggys . PASTON,I,373.123.3791

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wot yt well yowyr good hunkyll wold ben in possessyon wyth good well
, PASTON,I,373.123.3792

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I wol not soo . PASTON,I,373.123.3793

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold +tat ye shuld speke wyth yowyr hunkyll ther-jn and send me word
in hast what he seet . PASTON,I,373.123.3794

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I marvyll , be my trowth , +tat I had no wrytyng fro yowyr brodyr er he
departyd fro London , as he promysyd in the last lettyr +tat he sent me
, the wych was wretyn be-for the Kyngys comyng to Norwych .
PASTON,I,373.123.3795

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I went veryly <P_I,374> to have hard from hym ar thys tyme .
PASTON,I,374.123.3796

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold ye shuld send hym word of yowyr hunkylys delyng in thys seyd
mater , and send me an ansswer theroff . PASTON,I,374.123.3797

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Recomaund me to yowyr grauntdam . PASTON,I,374.123.3798

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold she war her in Norffolk as well at es as evyr I sy hyr , and as
lytyll rewlyd be hyr son as evyr she was ; PASTON,I,374.123.3799

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and than I wold hope +tat we alle shuld far the bettyr for hyr .
PASTON,I,374.123.3800

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yt ys told me +tat yowyr hunkyll hath mad gret menys and larg profyrs
to John Bakton to make a relesse to hym of Oxinhed .
PASTON,I,374.123.3801

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Whedyr yt be don or nowt I-SBJ wot nowt yet , PASTON,I,374.123.3802

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I shall wot in hast yf I may . PASTON,I,374.123.3803

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold ye shuld spekyn wyth my lord of Norwych and a-say to get a lysen
of hym +tat I may have +te sacrement her in the chapell , be-cause yt
ys far to +te chyrche and I am sekly , and +te parson ys oftyn owt .
PASTON,I,374.123.3804

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For all maner of caswelte`s of me and myn I wold $have $it {TEXT:hauyt}
grauntyd yf I myth . PASTON,I,374.123.3805

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Send me word yf ye her ony tydyngys from yowyr brodyr , how he doth of
hys seknes and in odyr thyngys as farforth as ye know , as astely as ye
may . PASTON,I,374.123.3806

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I thynk long tyll I her from hym for dyuers causys .
PASTON,I,374.123.3807

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,374.123.3808

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in hast at Mawdby on +te Satyrday next be-for Candelmes Day .
PASTON,I,374.123.3809

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Send me an ansswer of thys lettyr in hast , and odyr tydyngys , &c .
PASTON,I,374.123.3810

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be yowyr modyr PASTON,I,374.123.3811

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My cosyn Robard told me +tat ther was mor than vij li. of +te mony +tat
was payd hym +tat was ryght on-rysty and he cowd nowt $have $it
{TEXT:havyt} chaungyd ; PASTON,I,374.123.3812

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_123:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
he was on-goodly servyd ther-jn . PASTON,I,374.123.3813

<Q_PAS_C_1475_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_124> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,374>

{ED:223._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1475,_5_MARCH}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , I send yow Goddys blyssyng and myn , letyng yow wete +tat
I had non er thys lettyr than on Sent Mathuys Evyn .
PASTON,I,374.124.3814

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yf I myth a had an massengyr or thys tym I had sent yt yow .
PASTON,I,374.124.3815

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I can yow thank for +te lettyr +tat ye sent to my cosyn Calthorpp and
me of +te tydyngys ; PASTON,I,374.124.3816

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold ye shuld do soo mor . PASTON,I,374.124.3817

<P_I,375>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As ye may remembyr +tat I spak to yow for +te xx=ti= li. for my cosyn
Clere , spek to yowyr hunkyll ther-of PASTON,I,375.124.3818

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send me an ansswer ther of in hast , and for +te lycens +tat I spak
to yow for to have +te sacrement in my chapell . PASTON,I,375.124.3819

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yf ye $can $not {TEXT:cannot} $get $it {TEXT:getyt} of +te Busshop of
Norwych $get $it {TEXT:getyt} of +te Busshop of Caunterbery ,
PASTON,I,375.124.3820

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for +tat ys most swyr for all plas . PASTON,I,375.124.3821

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,375.124.3822

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31
LETTER:PASTON_124:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Myd-lent Sunday . PASTON,I,375.124.3823

<Q_PAS_C_1475_FN_MPASTON> <L_PASTON_125> <A_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,376>

{ED:225._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1475,_9_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipffull Ser John Paston , knyght , in haste .
</font> PASTON,I,376.125.3824

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Right welbeloued son , I grete yow wele PASTON,I,376.125.3825

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sende you Godes blissyng and myn , desiryng to knowe how ye do and
how ye fare . PASTON,I,376.125.3826

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I mervell moche I here no word from you in writyng sith the letter I
sent you be Symme weche he delyuerd you at London , wherin I sent you
word that I desired <P_I,377> to knowe how ye wold that I , and other
weche ye wold , shulde do for you here bothe for your liflode and for
other thynges and also for the mater be-twix your vncle and you , and
also be-twix yow and other folkes ; PASTON,I,377.125.3827

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for , as God defende , and ought come to you but weele nowther I nor
non other that I knowe +tat owyth yow wery goode wille wot not in what
cace ye stonde nor how ye wold it shulde be dalte wyth , nouther in
lyfelode nor in othyr thynges , weche is ryght hevy to me for to
remembre concederyng the viage weche ye be in nough at this tyme .
PASTON,I,377.125.3828

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I send to Spoorle to your fermour for Midsomer pay last pasd ,
PASTON,I,377.125.3829

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he sende me word that Tounesend wold haue it PASTON,I,377.125.3830

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and charged your fermour to pay hym , PASTON,I,377.125.3831

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ell he wold swe hes obligacion . PASTON,I,377.125.3832

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wend ye had ben through wyth Tounesend in all thynges savyng for the
c marke weche ye borewed of hym last . PASTON,I,377.125.3833

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for Sneylewell , I vndrestonde not who deleth for you there ,
wherof I merwelle . PASTON,I,377.125.3834

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And $as $for {TEXT:asfor} suche money as I haue receyued of yours , non
but for the wode at Sporle xx li. , and of Pecok for your lyfelode in
Flegge ix li. xv s. iiij d. , PASTON,I,377.125.3835

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor no more is like to haue this yere , as he telleth me , but for xx
quarter barly be-cauce of suche charges as hath be leide vpon your lond
this yere , as he sethe . PASTON,I,377.125.3836

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , on the Sonday next after Sein Jamys William Jenney come to Filby
PASTON,I,377.125.3837

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and entred in-to Holme Halle londes , seyng that he entred in the ryght
and titell of his douterlawe weche was Boys doughter ,
PASTON,I,377.125.3838

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there openly made the tenauntes to retourne be j d .
PASTON,I,377.125.3839

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and charged them that they shulde not pay no money nor no dewte`s
longyng to +tat londe but only to hym or his son or suche as they wol
assigne , and he to saue them harmeles a-yen you and all other .
Wherfore I requere and prey you , as hastely as ye godely may , for my
hertes eace to sende me worde how ye and your brethern fare , and how
ye spede in your viages , and a knowelege how ye wold that I and other
shulde dele for you in thes maters a-boue wreten , ar in any other that
ye thynke shuld be profitable for you ; PASTON,I,377.125.3840

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +tat I may do I wol do aswele as I can . PASTON,I,377.125.3841

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for tidynges here in this contre` , we haue non but that the
contry is bareyn of money and +tat my lady of Yorke and all her howsold
is here at Sein Benettes and purposed to a-bide there stille til the
Kynge come from be-yonde the see , and lenger if she like the eyre ther
, as it is seide . PASTON,I,377.125.3842

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I thynke ryght longe tille I here som tidynges fro you and from your
brethern . PASTON,I,377.125.3843

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey God sende you and al your company goode spede in your journayes
to his plesure , to your worshippes and profightes .
PASTON,I,377.125.3844

AUTHOR:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_125:M4:1475:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Mauteby on Sein Laverens Even the xv yere of the regne of
Kyng E. the iiij=th= . Be your moder PASTON,I,377.125.3845

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_126> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,390>

{ED:231._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1461,_23_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my rythg reuerent and worchypfoll fadere John Paston ,
esquyere , dwellyng jn Heylysdon , be thys lettere delyueryd jn haste .
</font> PASTON,I,390.126.3846

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Most reuerent and worschepful fadyre , I rekomawnd me hertylye ,
PASTON,I,390.126.3847

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and submytt me lowlely to yowre good faderhood , besechyng yow fore
cheryte` of yowre dayly blyssyng . PASTON,I,390.126.3848

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseche yow to hold me ascewsyd that I sente to yowe none erste no
wrythgtyng , PASTON,I,390.126.3849

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I kowd not spede to myn jntent the materys that ye sent to me fore
. PASTON,I,390.126.3850

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I laboryd dayly my lord of Estsexe , treserere of Ynglond , to haue
meuyd the Kyng bothe of the manere $of Deddham and of the byll copye of
the corte rolle euerye mornyng ore he went to the Kyng ,
PASTON,I,390.126.3851

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and often tymys jnquieryd of hym and he had meuyd the Kyng in these
materys . PASTON,I,390.126.3852

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He answeryd me naye , seyyng it was no tyme , PASTON,I,390.126.3853

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd he wold it ware osse fayne spedd os I my-selfe ; so offte
tymys de-layeng me that jn trowthe I thowt ta haue send yowe word that
I felyd by hym that he was not wyllyng to meue the Kyng there-in .
PASTON,I,390.126.3854

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthe-lesse I lawboryd to hym contynually PASTON,I,390.126.3855

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prayed Baronners , hys man , to remembyre hym of it .
PASTON,I,390.126.3856

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I told offten tymys to my seyd lord that I had a man teryyn jn town
that I schuld a sente to yow fore othyre sundry materys , and he teryid
fore no thyng but that I mythg send yowe by hym an answere of the seyd
materys ; othyre tymys besechyng hym to spede me in thoys materys fore
thys cawse that ye schuld thynke no defawte jn me <P_I,391> fore
rememberyng jn the seyd materys . PASTON,I,391.126.3857

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And nowe of late I , rememberyng hym of the same mater , jnquiryd if he
had meuyd the Kyngys hythgnes there-in ; PASTON,I,391.126.3858

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he answeryd me +tat he hadde felte and meuyd the Kyng there-in ,
rehersyng the Kyngys answere +ter-in : how +tat , when he had meuyd the
Kyng in the seyd maner of Dedham , besechyng hym to be yowre good lord
there-in , konsyderyng the seruyse and trewe hart that ye haue done and
owthg to hym , and jn espesyal the rygth that ye haue there-to , he
seyd he wold be yowre good lord therein as he wold be to the porest man
jn Inglond . PASTON,I,391.126.3859

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wold hold wyth yowe jn yowre rygth ; PASTON,I,391.126.3860

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as fore fauore , he wyll nogth be vndere-stand +tat he schal schewe
fauore more to one man then to anothyre , nowgth to on jn Inglond .
PASTON,I,391.126.3861

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore the bille copye of the cort rolle , when he meuyd to hym of
it he smylyd PASTON,I,391.126.3862

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat suche a bylle there was , seyyng +tat ye wold an
oppressyd syndrye of yowre contre`men of worchypfull men , and
$therfore he kepyd it styll . PASTON,I,391.126.3863

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuer the lesse he seyd he schuld loke it vppe in haste ,
PASTON,I,391.126.3864

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye schuld haue it . PASTON,I,391.126.3865

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Baronners vndertoke to me twyes ore thryes +tat he $schuld {TEXT:sculd}
so a remembrid hys lord and master +tat I schuld an had it wythinne ij
ore iij dayes . PASTON,I,391.126.3866

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is often tymys absent , PASTON,I,391.126.3867

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-fore I haue it nowthg yyt . PASTON,I,391.126.3868

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When I kan gete it I schall send it yowe , and of the Kyngys mowth hys
name +tat toke it hym . PASTON,I,391.126.3869

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I scend yow home Pekok a-geyn ; PASTON,I,391.126.3870

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is not fore me . PASTON,I,391.126.3871

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God send grase +tat he may do yow good seruyse , PASTON,I,391.126.3872

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
that be extymacion js not lykelye . PASTON,I,391.126.3873

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye schall haue knowlyche aftyrward howe he hathe demenyd hym here wyth
me . PASTON,I,391.126.3874

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold , sauyng yowre $dysplesure , that ye were delyueryd of hym ,
PASTON,I,391.126.3875

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he schalle neuer do yow profyte nere worchyp .
PASTON,I,391.126.3876

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose ye vnderstand +tat the monye that I hadde of yowe att Lundon
maye not jndure wyth me tyll that the Kyng goo in-to Walys an kome
ageyn , PASTON,I,391.126.3877

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I vndere-stand it schall be long ore he kome a-geyn . Where-fore I
haue send to Londun to myn onkyl Clement to gete an c s. of Cristofyre
Hansom yowre seruaunt , PASTON,I,391.126.3878

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send it me be my seyd seruaunt , and myn herneys wyth it whyche I
lefte at Lundun to make klene . PASTON,I,391.126.3879

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseche yowe not to be dysplesyd wyth it , PASTON,I,391.126.3880

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I kowd make non othyre cheysaunce but I schuld a boruyd it of a
strange man , sum of my felawys , $wheche I suppose schold not lyke
yowe and ye herd of it a-nothyre tyme . PASTON,I,391.126.3881

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I ame jn suerte` where as I schall haue a-nothyre mann jn the stede of
Pekoke . PASTON,I,391.126.3882

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord of Estsexe seythe he wyll do as myche fore yowe as fore any
esquyere in Inglond , PASTON,I,391.126.3883

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Beronners hys man tellyt me , seyyng ' Yowre <P_I,392> fadyre js
myche be-holdyng to my lord , PASTON,I,392.126.3884

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he louyth hym well . ' PASTON,I,392.126.3885

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Baruners meuyd me onys PASTON,I,392.126.3886

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seyd +tat ye must nedys do sum-whate fore my lord and hys ;
PASTON,I,392.126.3887

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I seyd I wost well +tat ye wold do fore hym +tat laye jn yowre
poware . PASTON,I,392.126.3888

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he seyd +tat +ter was a lytyl mony be-twyxe yowe and a jantylman of
Estsexe callyd Dyrward , seyyng +tat +ter is as myche be-twejn my seyd
lord and the seyd jantyilman , of the wyche mony he desieryth yowre
part . PASTON,I,392.126.3889

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is talkyd here howe +tat ye and Howard schuld a streuyn to-gyddyre
on +te schere daye , and on of Howardys $men {TEXT:me} $schuld
{TEXT:sculd} a strekyn yow twyess wyth a dagere , PASTON,I,392.126.3890

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo ye schuld a ben hurt but fore a good dobelet +tat ye hadde on
at that tyme . PASTON,I,392.126.3891

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Blyssyd be God that ye hadde it on . PASTON,I,392.126.3892

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more I wryth to yowere good faderhod at thys tym , but Allmygthy God
haue yowe in hys kepyng and send yowe vyttorye of yowre elmyse and
worschyp jncressyng to yowre lyuys endyn . PASTON,I,392.126.3893

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:19
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_126:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytyn at Lewys on Seynt Bertylmweys Eue . Be yowre seruaunt and eldere
sone John Paston PASTON,I,392.126.3894

<Q_PAS_A_1464?_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_127> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,394>

{ED:234._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1464,_5_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wyrschypful fadre John Paston , esquyere , be thys
letter delyueryd in hasty wyse . </font> PASTON,I,394.127.3895

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worschypful syre , jn the most lowly wyse I comaund me to yowre
good faderhod , besechyng yow of yowre blyssyng . PASTON,I,394.127.3896

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Mut it plese yowre faderhod to remembre and concydre the peyn and
heuynesse +tat it hathe ben to me syn yowre departyng owt of thys
contre` , here abydyng tyl the tyme it please yow to schewe me grace ,
and tyl the tyme that by reporte my demenyng be to yowre plesyng ;
besechyng yow to concydre +tat I may not nere haue noo mene to seke to
yow as I awght to do sauyng vndre thys forme , whych I besech yow be
not take to no dysplesure , ner am not of power to do any thynge in
$thys contre` for worschyp or profyht of yow nere ease of yowre
tenauntys whych myght and scholde be to yowre pleasyng . Wherfor I
beseche yow of yowre faderly pyte` to tendre +te more thys symple
wryghtyng , as I schal owt of dowght her-afftere doo +tat schal please
yow to +te vttermest of my powere and labore . PASTON,I,394.127.3897

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if there be any servyce +tat I may do , if it please yow to comaund
me or if I maye vnderstonde it , I wyl be as glad to do it as any thyng
erthely , if it were any thyng +tat myght be to yowre pleasyng .
PASTON,I,394.127.3898

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And nomore , but Allmyghty God haue yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,394.127.3899

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:22?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_127:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the v day of Marche . By yowre oldere sone John Paston
PASTON,I,394.127.3900

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_128> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,395>

{ED:235._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_27_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> $To hys ryght worschypful $fadre John Paston , beyng <em> in the
</em> Flete at London , be thys delyueryd . </font>
PASTON,I,395.128.3901

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worschypful syre , jn the most lowly wyse I recomand me to yow .
PASTON,I,395.128.3902

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Pleasyth it yow to wete +tat I sente yow a letter but late agoo , in
whych letter I lete yow haue vnderstondyng +tat , if it pleasyd yow to
grante and assente there-to , Syre Thomas Howes wolde resyngne the
benefyce of Mawteby to a ful prestly man of Norwych callyd Syr Thomas
Lyndys , whom I suppose ye haue knolech of . PASTON,I,395.128.3903

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthe-lesse I wote wele he hath not ben grettly aquentyd wyth yow .
PASTON,I,395.128.3904

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But I and he haue ben moch aquentyd to-gedere , PASTON,I,395.128.3905

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I vnderstond and knowe hys vertews leuyng and dysposicion ryght
wele , whyche herafftere I wote wele scholde please yow ryght wele .
PASTON,I,395.128.3906

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And that letter whyche I sente yow , as I vnderstod syns , Nycholas
Colman the berere there-of cam not owte of Norwych iiij or v dayes
aftere that the bylle was delyueryd hym , wherfor I am jn dowte
whythere it is come to yowre handes <em> or </em> $not , whyche cawsyth
me to wryght to yow ageyn jn thys wyse ; besechyng yow , if it plese
yow +tat the seyd Syr Thomas Lyndys schal be of yowre promotyng jn +te
wyse above wretyn , +tat then it lyke yow +tat I may haue answere by
the berere herof , whych schal tary at London a day or ij and not
passyng . PASTON,I,395.128.3907

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomore to yow at thys tyme , but Alle-myghty God haue yow in guydyng .
PASTON,I,395.128.3908

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_128:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Heylesdon the Fryday next byfore Sceynt Mychell . By yowre
oldere son John Paston PASTON,I,395.128.3909

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_129> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,396>

{ED:236._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1467,_PROBABLY_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my brothere John Paston . </font> PASTON,I,396.129.3910

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worschypful and verrely welbelouyd brothere , I hertely comande
me to yow , thankyng yow of yowre labore and dyligence that ye haue in
kepyng of my place at Castre so sewerly , both-2 wyth yowre hert and
mynde , to yowr gret bisynesse and troble ; PASTON,I,396.129.3911

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I ageynwarde haue hadde so lytell leysere that I haue not spedde
bot fewe of yowre erendys , nere $can $not {TEXT:kannot} before thys
tyme . PASTON,I,396.129.3912

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
$As $fore {TEXT:Asfore} my lady Boleynes dysposicion to yow werdys , I
$can $not {TEXT:kannot} in no wyse fynde hyre a-greable +tat ye scholde
haue here dowter , for all the preuy meanes +tat I kowde make ; in so
moche I hadde so lytell comfore by all the meanes +tat I kowde make
+tat I dysdeyned in myn own person to comon wyth hyre there-in .
PASTON,I,396.129.3913

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse I vndre-stande +tat sche seythe , ' What if he and sche
kan agre` , I wyll not lette it ; PASTON,I,396.129.3914

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I will neuer advyse hyre therto in no wyse . '
PASTON,I,396.129.3915

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And vppon Tewesday last past sche rood hom in-to Norfolke ; wherfore as
ye thynke ye may fynde the meane to speke wyth hyre yowre-selfe ,
PASTON,I,396.129.3916

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore wyth-owt that , in myn conceyt , it wyll nat be .
PASTON,I,396.129.3917

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as fore Crosseby , I vndrestand not +tat +ter is no maryage
concludyd betwen them ; PASTON,I,396.129.3918

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
neuer thelesse there is gret langage +tat it is lyke to be .
PASTON,I,396.129.3919

<P_I,397>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye be personable , PASTON,I,397.129.3920

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and par auentur yowre beyng ones in the syght of +te mayde , and a
lytell descuueryng of your good wyl to hyre , byndyng hyre to kepe it
secret , and +tat ye kane fynde in yowre hert , wyth som comfort of
hyre , to fynde the meane to brynge suche a mater abowt as schall be
hyre pleasur and yowrys , but that thys ye $can $not {TEXT:kannot} do
wyth-owt som comfort of hyre in no wyse - . PASTON,I,397.129.3921

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And bere yore-selfe as lowly to +te modere as ye lyst , but=3 to +te
mayde not to lowly , PASTON,I,397.129.3922

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nere that ye be to gladde to spede nere to sory to fayle .
PASTON,I,397.129.3923

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I alweys schall be yowre herault , bothe here if sche com hydder
and at home when I kome hom , whych I hope hastyly wyth-in xl dayes at
+te ferthes . PASTON,I,397.129.3924

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modre hathe a letter whych can tell yow more , PASTON,I,397.129.3925

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye may lat Dawbeny se it . PASTON,I,397.129.3926

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,397.129.3927

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I suppose and ye kall welle vppon R. Calle he schall puruey yow mony .
PASTON,I,397.129.3928

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_129:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue wretyn to hym j-now . PASTON,I,397.129.3929

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_130> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,400>

{ED:240._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1469,_EARLY_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my moodre and to my brothere John Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,400.130.3930

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brothere , it is so +tat the Kynge schall come in-to Norffolk in hast ,
PASTON,I,400.130.3931

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I wot nat whethyre +tat I may com wyth hym ore nowt .
PASTON,I,400.130.3932

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I come I most do make a leuere` of xx=ti= gownes , whyche I most
pyke owt by yowre advyse ; PASTON,I,400.130.3933

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $as $fore {TEXT:asfore} clothe fore suche persones as be in +tat
contre` , if it myght be hadd there att Norwyche ore not I wot not ,
PASTON,I,400.130.3934

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and what personys I am nott <P_I,401> remembryd . PASTON,I,401.130.3935

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff my modre be at Caster , as ther schall be no dowt fore the kepyng
of +te place why the Kynge is in that contre` , than I may haue the
most parte at Caster ; PASTON,I,401.130.3936

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and whethere ye woll offre yowre-selfe to wayte vppon my lorde of
Norfolk ore not , I wolde ye dyd +tat best were to do .
PASTON,I,401.130.3937

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wolde do my lorde plesure and seruyse , PASTON,I,401.130.3938

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I wolde ye dyde if I wyst to be sure of hys god lordeschyp in
tyme to kome . PASTON,I,401.130.3939

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He schall haue cc in a lyuerye blew and tawnye , and blew on the leffte
syde and bothe derke colorys . PASTON,I,401.130.3940

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow sende me worde and yow {ED:r} advyse be Juddy of what men
and what horse I cowde be purueyd of if so be +tat I most nedys kome ,
and of yowre advyce in all thyngys be wryghtyng ; PASTON,I,401.130.3941

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schall sende yow $hastily othere tydyngys . PASTON,I,401.130.3942

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,401.130.3943

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And $as $fore {TEXT:asfore} my materis my sariantys haue no dowt in it
, wyth +te grace of God , that +tis terme they schall do well j-now and
haue an ende . PASTON,I,401.130.3944

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also sende John Russe worde +tat he hathe don in the best wyse , and
+tat hys deposicion and +te examynacion in Canterbury cort acorde in
the best wyse , PASTON,I,401.130.3945

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so hath Fryre Moghte don passynly wele . PASTON,I,401.130.3946

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue wret to myn oncle +tat my moodre kan tell hym more than I haue
wret to hym . PASTON,I,401.130.3947

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_130:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Late Sorell be well kepte . PASTON,I,401.130.3948

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_131> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,405>

{ED:243._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1469,_15_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Moodre , vppon Saterday last was Dawbeney and Bernay were on lyve and
mery , PASTON,I,405.131.3949

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I suppose ther cam no man owt of the place to yow syn that tyme
that cowde haue asserteynyd to yow of there dethys .
PASTON,I,405.131.3950

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as towchyng the fyrsenesse of the Duke ere of hys peple schewyd syn
that tyme that Wryttel departyd , I trowe it was concludyd that trews
and abstynence of werre scholde be hadd ere he departyd whych shalle
dewre tyl Monday next comyng . PASTON,I,405.131.3951

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And by that tyme I trow +tat trews schall be takyn tyll that day vij
nyght afftre , by whych tyme I hope of a goode dyreccion schall be
hadde . PASTON,I,405.131.3952

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And where as ye wryght to me +tat I scholde sewe for letteris from my
lordys of Clarance and Yorke , they be not here ; PASTON,I,405.131.3953

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff they wrot to hym , as +tey haue don ij tymes , I trow it wolde
nat advayle . PASTON,I,405.131.3954

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as fore to labore thois letteris and the rescu togedre , they ben
ij sondry thyngys , PASTON,I,405.131.3955

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore when <P_I,406> the rescu is redy that the cost there-of is don -
PASTON,I,406.131.3956

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for iff I be dreuyn therto to rescu it ere they com there that scholde
do it , it shall cost a m=l= escutys and as moche afftre ; whych wey
were harde for me to take whyll +tat I maye do it otherwyse .
PASTON,I,406.131.3957

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But as to sey +tat they schall be rescuyd iff all the lande that I haue
in $Ingelond , and frendys , maye do it , they schall , and God be
frendly , and that as schortly as it may goodlely and wele be browt
abut . PASTON,I,406.131.3958

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the grettest deffaut erthly is mony , and som frendys and neyborys
to helpe ; wherffore I beseche yow to sende me comfort what money ye
coude fynde the menys to get ore cheuysche vppon suerte` sufficient ere
vppon lyfflod to be jnmorgage ere yit solde , and what peple by lyklyod
, yowre frendys and myn , kowde make vppon a schort warnyng , and to
sende me worde in all the hast as it is nedffull .
PASTON,I,406.131.3959

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But , moodre , I fele by yowre wryghtyng that ye deme in me I scholde
not do my deuyre wyth-owt ye wrot to me som hevye tydyngys ;
PASTON,I,406.131.3960

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and , modre , iff I had nede to be qwykynyd wyth a letter in thys nede
I were of my-selfe to slawe a felaw . PASTON,I,406.131.3961

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But , moodre , I ensure yow +tat I haue herde x tymes werse tydyngys
syn the assege by-gan than any letter that ye wrot to me ,
PASTON,I,406.131.3962

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and somtyme I haue herde ryght goode tydyngys both .
PASTON,I,406.131.3963

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But thys I ensure yow , that they that be wyth-in haue no werse reste
than I haue , nere castyth more jupperte` . PASTON,I,406.131.3964

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But whethyre I had goode tydyngys er ill , I take Gode to wittnesse
+tat I haue don my devoyre as I wolde be don fore in case lyke , and
schall doo tyll ther be an ende of it . PASTON,I,406.131.3965

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue sent to the Kynge to Yorke , and to +te lordys ,
PASTON,I,406.131.3966

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hope to haue ansswere from them by Wednysday at +te ferthest ;
PASTON,I,406.131.3967

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and affter that answere shall I be rewlyd , and than send yow word ,
PASTON,I,406.131.3968

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore tyll that tyme kan I take non dyreccion . PASTON,I,406.131.3969

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And to encomfort yow , $dyspeyre {TEXT:dypeyre} yow not fore lak of
vytayle ner of gonne-powdre , PASTON,I,406.131.3970

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ner be natt to heuy ner to mery there-fore . PASTON,I,406.131.3971

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Fore and heuynesse ore sorow wolde haue ben the remedy there-of , I
knew neuyre matere in my lyffe +tat I kowde haue ben so heuy ore sory
fore . PASTON,I,406.131.3972

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And wyth Goddys grace it schall be remedyed well j-now ;
PASTON,I,406.131.3973

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe I hadde lever lose the maner of Caster than +te
symplest mannys lyffe therin iff that may be hys saueacion . Wherfore I
beseche yow to sende me worde wat mony and men ye thynke +tat I am lyke
to get in that contre` , PASTON,I,406.131.3974

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore the hasty purchace of mony and men schall be the getyng and rescu
of it , and the sauevacion of most mennys lyffys , iff we take +tat
weye . PASTON,I,406.131.3975

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also thys daye I porpose to sende to Yorke to +te Kyng fore a thyng ,
whych same only maye be lyklyod be the savacion of all .
PASTON,I,406.131.3976

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye must remembre that the rescue of it is the last remedy of all , and
how it is nat easy to get . PASTON,I,406.131.3977

<P_I,407>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And also ye sende me worde +tat I scholde nat kome hom wyth-owt +tat I
kome stronke ; PASTON,I,407.131.3978

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but iff I had hadd on othere stronge place in Norffolke to haue comen
to , thowe I had browt ryght fewe wyth me I scholde , wyth Goddys grace
, haue rescued it by thys tyme , PASTON,I,407.131.3979

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ere ellys he scholde haue ben fayne to haue besegyd bothe placys ore
yit , PASTON,I,407.131.3980

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the Duke had not kept Yarmoth owthe . PASTON,I,407.131.3981

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But , mother , I beseche yow sende me som mony , PASTON,I,407.131.3982

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore by my trowth I haue but x s . PASTON,I,407.131.3983

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
{ED:I}_NP-SBJ wot not wher to haue more , PASTON,I,407.131.3984

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and moreouy {ED:r} I haue ben x tymes in lyke case ore werse wyth-in
thys x wekys . PASTON,I,407.131.3985

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sent to Rychard Call for mony , PASTON,I,407.131.3986

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he sendyth me non . PASTON,I,407.131.3987

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow to gyde the euydence +tat Pekok can tell yow off , and to
se it saffe , PASTON,I,407.131.3988

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for it is tolde me +tat Richard Call hath hadd right large langage of
them ; PASTON,I,407.131.3989

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde nat they com in hys fyngrys . PASTON,I,407.131.3990

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue no worde from yow of them , ner whethere ye haue yit in yowr
kepyng the euydence of Est Bekham owt of hys handys , ner whethyre ye
haue sent to my manerys that they schold not paye hym no more mony ,
ore not . PASTON,I,407.131.3991

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also +tat it lyke yow to geve credence to Robyn in othere thyngys .
PASTON,I,407.131.3992

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wret the Fryday next affter Holy Roode Daye . PASTON,I,407.131.3993

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_131:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,407.131.3994

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_132> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,407>

{ED:244._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1469,_18_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , and to noon othyre . </font>
PASTON,I,407.132.3995

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I recomand me to yow , PASTON,I,407.132.3996

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and promyse yow +tat I haue and schall labore and fynde +te meane +tat
ye schall haue honore of yowre delyng , as ye haue hyddre-towardys , as
all Ingelond and euery man reportythe . PASTON,I,407.132.3997

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And moreouer I am in weye fore it by many dyuerse weys , wherof there
schall be one exicutyd by thys day xiiij nyght at +te ferthest , and
parauenture wyth-in vij dayes , PASTON,I,407.132.3998

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff ye maye kepe it so longe I wolde be gladd .
PASTON,I,407.132.3999

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And afftre that , iff ye haue nott from me other wryghtyng , that than
ye do there-in fore yowre saffgarde and yowre felaschep only , and to
yowre worschypys ; PASTON,I,407.132.4000

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and $as $fore {TEXT:asfore} the place , no force therffore .
PASTON,I,407.132.4001

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye knowe thys hande , PASTON,I,407.132.4002

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+terfore nedythe no mencion from whom it comythe .
PASTON,I,407.132.4003

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And more-ouyre , they that be abut yow be in obloquy of all men ,
PASTON,I,407.132.4004

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and more-ouyre they haue ben wretyn to by alse speciall wryghtyng as
myght be afftre the worlde +tat now is , PASTON,I,407.132.4005

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and {ED:I}_NP-SBJ promyse yow +tat the Dukes <P_I,408> concell wolde
+tat they had neuyre be-gon it . PASTON,I,408.132.4006

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And more-ouyr they be chargyd in payne of there lyvys that , thow they
gate the place , they scholde not hurt on of yow .
PASTON,I,408.132.4007

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There is nowther ye ner none wyth yow but , and he knewe what is
generaly reportyd of hym , he ore ye - and God fortewne yow wele - may
thynke hym iiij tymes bettere in reputacion of all folk than euyre he
was . PASTON,I,408.132.4008

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be ware whom ye make a concell to thys mater . PASTON,I,408.132.4009

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , I lete yow wete +tat I am in moche more comffort of yow +tan
{in}_P {that_I_am} I maye wryght , PASTON,I,408.132.4010

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and they +tat be abowt yow haue cawse to be more ferde than ye haue ;
PASTON,I,408.132.4011

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also beware of spendyng of yowre stuffe of qwarellys , powdre , and
stone , so that iff they assawt yow ere we come that ye haue stuffe to
dyffende yow of on , and than of my lyffe ye get nomore ; and that
yowre felaschyp be euyre ocopyed in renewyng of yowre stuffe .
PASTON,I,408.132.4012

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Mondaye next afftre Holy Roode Daye . PASTON,I,408.132.4013

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_132:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I trow , thow ye be not preuy ther-to , ther is taken a trews new tyl
thys day vij $nyght . PASTON,I,408.132.4014

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_133> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,408>

{ED:245._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1469,_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston be thys delyueryd . </font>
PASTON,I,408.133.4015

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchypffull moodre , I comand me to yow PASTON,I,408.133.4016

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and beseche yow of yowre blyssyng , PASTON,I,408.133.4017

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and God thanke yow fore yowre tendrenesse and helpe bothe-1 to me , my
brothre , and servantys ; besechyng yow to sende me worde what is yowre
plesure and advyse how that ye thynke were best to do wyth my servantys
there wyth yow . PASTON,I,408.133.4018

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse somwhat I vndrestande by a letter from my brothere John -
and more-ouyre that he hathe myn euydence of Bekham .
PASTON,I,408.133.4019

<P_I,409>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , Dawbeney , God haue hys sowle , hadde in kepyng an oblygacion in
whyche James Gressham was bonde to me in an c mark , selyd wyth James
sele , osse I suppose of hys office , and wyth grene waxe .
PASTON,I,409.133.4020

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue lente James and payd for hym abut xl li. , PASTON,I,409.133.4021

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and haue non other sewerte` . PASTON,I,409.133.4022

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow late it be lokyd vppe be tymes . PASTON,I,409.133.4023

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme it is amonge hys gere at Norwyche . PASTON,I,409.133.4024

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that it lyke yow to speke to James Gressham that in any wyse he
puruey hym mony to save me harmelez here thys terme ageyn Ser Thomas
Mongomery . PASTON,I,409.133.4025

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , myn oncle William scholde haue comen home euery daye thys vij
nyght , PASTON,I,409.133.4026

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys daye or to-morow he comyth homwardys . PASTON,I,409.133.4027

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He and I be as goode as fallyn owt , PASTON,I,409.133.4028

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe laten me pleynly wete +tat he schalle haue alle my
grauntdames lyfflod off here enherytance and of hyr joyntore also ,
wherin I trust to God that he schall helpe . PASTON,I,409.133.4029

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I woll not yit speke of it , PASTON,I,409.133.4030

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ner I praye yow doo not . PASTON,I,409.133.4031

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I beseche yow sende me worde of the delyng of my sustre Margery
and Rycharde Calle . PASTON,I,409.133.4032

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde nat +tat they were maryed of a whyle , iff it maye be , fore
dyuers concideracions . PASTON,I,409.133.4033

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff it lyk yow to speke on my behalffe , and yowrys bothe , to +te
Bysshop to tary it tyll Crystmesse , I hope by that tyme to fynde som
remedye therffore ; and to telle hym that I desyryd yow to speke to hym
therin . PASTON,I,409.133.4034

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff soo be that they sshall be maryed in haste , +tat than ye sende
me worde +ter-of whether it be don or nott , and whoghe he purposythe
to dele wyth hyre , and how he woll gyde hyre and wher he woll dwelle .
PASTON,I,409.133.4035

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that it lyke yow to vndrestande what fellaschyp and what guydyng
ys at Caster , and that ye haue alwey som spye that maye be grett wyth
them and so to vndrestande it and to sende me worde .
PASTON,I,409.133.4036

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , iff Ebysham come nat hom wyth myn oncle W. +tat than ye sende me
+te ij Frenshe bookys +tat he scholde haue wretyn , +tat he may wryght
them here . PASTON,I,409.133.4037

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,409.133.4038

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kynge is comyn to London , PASTON,I,409.133.4039

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there com wyth hym and roode ageyn hym the Duke of Glowcestre , the
Duke of Suffolk , +te Erle of Aroundell , the Erle of Northumbreland ,
the Erle of Essex , the lordez Harry and John of Bokyngham , the Lord
Dakrez , the Lorde Chambreleyn , the Lorde Montjoye , and many other
knyghtys and sqwyerys , the meyr of London , xxij aldremen in skarlett
, and of the crafftys men of the town to +te nombre of cc all in blewe
. PASTON,I,409.133.4040

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kynge come thorow Chepe , thowe it were owt of hys weye , be-cawse
he wold not be seyn ; PASTON,I,409.133.4041

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he was acompanyed in all peple wyth m=l= horsse , som harneysyd and
som nat . PASTON,I,409.133.4042

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lorde Archebysshop com wyth hym from Yorke PASTON,I,409.133.4043

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is at +te Moore , PASTON,I,409.133.4044

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and my lorde of <P_I,410> Oxenfford roode to haue mett +te Kyng ,
PASTON,I,410.133.4045

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he is wyth my lorde Archebysshop at +te Moore PASTON,I,410.133.4046

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and com natt to town wyth +te Kyng . PASTON,I,410.133.4047

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Som sey +tat they were yisterdaye iij myle to +te Kyng wardys from the
Moore , and that the Kyng sent them a massanger that they scholde come
whan +tat he sent fore them . PASTON,I,410.133.4048

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wot not what to suppose ther-in . PASTON,I,410.133.4049

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kyng hym-selffe hathe good langage of the lordys of Claraunce , of
Warwyk , and of my lordys of York , of Oxenfford , seyng they be hys
best frendys . PASTON,I,410.133.4050

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But hys howsolde men haue other langage , PASTON,I,410.133.4051

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
so what schall hastily falle I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} seye .
PASTON,I,410.133.4052

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lorde of Norffolk schall be her thys nyght . PASTON,I,410.133.4053

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_133:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I schall sende yow more when I knowe more . PASTON,I,410.133.4054

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_134> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,412>

{ED:248._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1470,_ABOUT_20_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquiere , beyng at Norwyche , be thys letter
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,412.134.4055

<P_I,413>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I comande me to yow , letyng yow wete that I haue receyuyd yowre letter
in +te boxe , and the byllys also off yowre receytys where-in ye
refferre yow to a rekenyng whyche ye made to me last , whyche I
remembre nat , nere haue no byllys off it that I remembre .
PASTON,I,413.134.4056

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But thys was it that I desyred off yow to haue wreten ore asserteynyd
me off in rekenyng off all the receyt , asswell olde as newe , off all
that was be-hynde and owyng off the tenantys by the seyng and wryghtyng
off Richard Call , and off whom and in what place and what daye and
whyther off the olde arreragys ore ellys off the last yere .
PASTON,I,413.134.4057

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye wryghte to Osberne Berney vij li. , refferryng yow to +te
last rekenyng , PASTON,I,413.134.4058

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue not +tat I knowe no suche rekenyng , PASTON,I,413.134.4059

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nere I knowe nat wher that vij li. was payed nere where a-bowt spendyd
. PASTON,I,413.134.4060

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow iff ye haue any leysere to make bothe rekenyngys in on ,
and that I maye vndrestande what I owe in yowre conceyte in Norffolk ,
and what is owyng me . PASTON,I,413.134.4061

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I prey yow sende me the wryghtyng be-twen Townesende and me by
the next massanger . PASTON,I,413.134.4062

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue not all the crosse bowez ; PASTON,I,413.134.4063

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I lak the tylere fore the mydell bowe , jtem a wyndase fore the bowe
that was broken , and the Normandy byll . PASTON,I,413.134.4064

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow sende them me in hast , PASTON,I,413.134.4065

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I mervaylle that they come natt wyth +te othere gere .
PASTON,I,413.134.4066

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow sende hydder a bowe +tat wasse Dawbeneys , wyth a
crokyd horn , how so euer ye doo fore Tom Stompys .
PASTON,I,413.134.4067

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as fore Mestresse Kateryn Dudle` , I haue many tymez recomandyd
yow to hyre , PASTON,I,413.134.4068

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sche is noo thynge dyspleasyd wyth itt . PASTON,I,413.134.4069

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She rekkythe nat how many gentylmen love hyre - PASTON,I,413.134.4070

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
sche is full off love . PASTON,I,413.134.4071

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue betyn the mater for yow yowre onknowleche , as I tolde hyre .
PASTON,I,413.134.4072

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She answerythe me +tat sche woll noon thys ij yere ,
PASTON,I,413.134.4073

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I beleve hyre , PASTON,I,413.134.4074

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thynke sche hathe the lyffe +tat sche can holde hyr content wyth
. PASTON,I,413.134.4075

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trowe she woll be a sore laboryng woman +tis ij yer for mede off hyre
sowle . PASTON,I,413.134.4076

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Mestresse Gryseacresse is sure to Selengere wyth my lady off
Exestre , a fowle losse . PASTON,I,413.134.4077

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow speke wyth Harcort off the Abbeye fore a lytell
clokke whyche I sent hym by James Gressham to amend ,
PASTON,I,413.134.4078

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat ye woll get it off hym , and it be redy , and sende it me ;
PASTON,I,413.134.4079

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $as $fore {TEXT:asfore} mony for hys labore , he hathe another
clokk off myn whyche Syr Thomas Lyndez , God haue hys sowll , gaue me .
PASTON,I,413.134.4080

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He maye kepe that tyll I paye hym . PASTON,I,413.134.4081

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys klok js my lordys Archebysshopis , PASTON,I,413.134.4082

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but late not hym wete off it , and +tat itt {ED:be} easely caryed
hyddre by yowre advyse . PASTON,I,413.134.4083

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , as for orengez I schall sende yow a serteyn by the next caryere
. PASTON,I,413.134.4084

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And $as $for {TEXT:asfor} tydynge , the berere heroff schall infforme
yow ; PASTON,I,413.134.4085

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ye most geue credence to hym . PASTON,I,413.134.4086

<P_I,414>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} my goode spede , I hope well I am offryd yit to
haue Mestresse Anne Haulte , PASTON,I,414.134.4087

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schall haue helpe j-nowe , as some seye . PASTON,I,414.134.4088

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ther is a weye mevyd by the meane off my lorde off Wynchester
betwen Syr William Yeluerton and me , PASTON,I,414.134.4089

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and bothe Syr William Yeluerton and I agreyd to abyde hys awarde ;
wherffore I hope thys next terme ther schall be a weye taken and an
ende ; PASTON,I,414.134.4090

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , in concell be it , PASTON,I,414.134.4091

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fere not the adwarde . PASTON,I,414.134.4092

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I may not wryght my goode hope ner suerte` there-off , iff Syr William
Yeluerton will abyde by that he hathe seyde ; PASTON,I,414.134.4093

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff he do natt he is begyled , PASTON,I,414.134.4094

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my lorde off Wynchester hathe take admynestracion off Syr J.
Fastolffys testment PASTON,I,414.134.4095

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Syr William Yeluerton is excludyd . PASTON,I,414.134.4096

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr William Yeluerton wotythe nat her-off , PASTON,I,414.134.4097

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I rek not thowe ye tell hym not ther-off . PASTON,I,414.134.4098

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But thys ye may sey to Wylliam Yeluerton , whyche hathe by-foore thys
tyme feynet that he ment well and wold that we hadd ben acordyd , that
ye vndrestand that suche a tretye is hadd be-twen hym and me , and that
ye preye God make an ende betwen vs , and than schall we all be goode
felawez ageyn ; and that ye vndrestande +tat Heydon woll be a gret
letter her-off , for he louythe nowthe Syr W. Yeluerton in conclusion ,
nor me nowther , and that he hathe a gret whyle lawhyd at vs bothe ;
and iff we tweyn wer agreyd that nowthere of vsse bothe hathe no nede
in tyme to kome to dele wyth hym , PASTON,I,414.134.4099

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for off olde malyse he louyth vs nowthe PASTON,I,414.134.4100

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but hatythe vs bothe . PASTON,I,414.134.4101

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And more ouyre he hathe reportyd hymselff off Syr Wylliam Yeluerton
+tat he hathe not delt wyselye and that he hathe auenturyd , for malyse
of me , hys welffare ; PASTON,I,414.134.4102

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he had kowde haue knowen what he hadde don , PASTON,I,414.134.4103

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he seyde he was not wyse , seyng that and I hadde recuueryd ageyn
hym in the Chancerye that he wer verrely ondon . PASTON,I,414.134.4104

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I ensure yow I rek not whethyre the tretyse take effecte ere nott ,
PASTON,I,414.134.4105

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore the {ED:r} schall be a lyfft at it ere owght longe to , wyth the
grace off God . PASTON,I,414.134.4106

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I may not wryght the secretnesse heroff . PASTON,I,414.134.4107

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys mater maye not be wyst to noo body but to my moodre and yowe onlye
, nowther-1 to Syr James ner noo bodye . PASTON,I,414.134.4108

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I preye yow remembre the oblygacion that Dawbeney , God haue hys
sowle , hadde off James Gresham how he was bonde to me in c mark .
PASTON,I,414.134.4109

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I vnderstande +tat Thomas Wyngffelde and ye were at Walsyngham
to-gedre ; PASTON,I,414.134.4110

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God speede yow . PASTON,I,414.134.4111

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , $as $fore {TEXT:asfore} them that were jndyghtyd wyth me off
forcyble entre` , ther schall no processe goo owt ageyn them ,
PASTON,I,414.134.4112

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I haye purueyd an attorny for them in the Kynges Benche
PASTON,I,414.134.4113

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue jmparlyd for them tyll the next terme . PASTON,I,414.134.4114

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow to comon wyth myn oncle Wylliam and to haue a byll
off hym what +tat is betwen hym and me , and what I owe hym and vppon
what pledgys , and to tell hym that thoys pledgys +tat he thynkythe
lest worthe +tat he woll sende me worde , +tat they may be fyrst
pledgyd owt , PASTON,I,414.134.4115

<P_I,415>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I may not well all at onez . PASTON,I,415.134.4116

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I preye yow sende me worde off hys dysposycion heryn , and also
whethere he be off the same dysposicion in my grantdamez londe as
{in}_P he was at hys last beyng here , at whyche tyme he tolde me +tat
he scholde and wolde haue suche lond as I loked afftre , rehersyng
moreouyre that myn oncle Clement had laboryd the same .
PASTON,I,415.134.4117

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow to speke wyth the chancelere Doctour Pykenam so that
I may haue the mony that was oweng me for Syr Thomas Lyndys , wheroff I
toke a byll to Syr W. Marrys . PASTON,I,415.134.4118

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is a-bowt the some off v $marke {TEXT:mrke} . PASTON,I,415.134.4119

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Doctur Pykenham tolde me at hys laste beyng here +tat suche
goodez as were Syr Thomas were yit reseruyd fore me , and noo thynge
don for hym tyll that I be payd off my dewte` ; PASTON,I,415.134.4120

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende me worde . PASTON,I,415.134.4121

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it is soo +tat I am halffe in purpose to com hom wyth-in a
monythe here-afftre , or a-bowt Med-lente ore beffore Esterne , ondyre
yowre coreccion , iff so be that ye deme +tat my mooder wolde helpe me
to my costys , x $mark {TEXT:mrk} or ther-a-bowt .
PASTON,I,415.134.4122

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow feele hyre dysposicion PASTON,I,415.134.4123

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende me worde . PASTON,I,415.134.4124

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} telle yow what woll falle off the
worlde , PASTON,I,415.134.4125

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the Kyng verrely is dysposyd to goo in-to Lyncoln-schyre
PASTON,I,415.134.4126

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and men wot nat what wyll falle ther-off nere there-afftre .
PASTON,I,415.134.4127

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They wene my lorde off Norffolke scholde brynge x m=l= men .
PASTON,I,415.134.4128

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ther is comen a newe litell Torke , whyche is a wele vysagyd
felawe off the age off xl yere , PASTON,I,415.134.4129

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he is lowere than Manuell by an hanffull and lower then my lytell
Tom by the scholderys , and more lytell above hys pappe .
PASTON,I,415.134.4130

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he hathe , as he seyde to +te Kyng hym-selffe , iij or iiij sonys
chyldre , iche on off hem as hyghe and asse lykly as the Kynge
hym-selffe . PASTON,I,415.134.4131

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he is leggyd ryght j-now , PASTON,I,415.134.4132

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is reportyd that hys pyntell is asse longe as hys legge .
PASTON,I,415.134.4133

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow schewe ore rede to my moodre suche thyngez as ye
thynke is fore here to knowe , afftre yowre dyscression ,
PASTON,I,415.134.4134

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to late hyre vndrestonde off the article off the trete` betwen Syre
Wylliam Yeluerton and me . PASTON,I,415.134.4135

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my lorde off Warwyk , as it is supposyd , schall goo wyth +te
Kynge in-to Lyncolne-schyre . PASTON,I,415.134.4136

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Som men seye +tat hys goyng shall do good , PASTON,I,415.134.4137

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and som seye that it dothe harme . PASTON,I,415.134.4138

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow euyre haue an eyghe to Caster to knowe the rewle there ,
PASTON,I,415.134.4139

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende me worde ; and whyther my wyse lorde and my lady be yit as
sottyt vppon it as they were , and whether my seyd lorde resortythe
thyddre as offte as he dyd or nott , and off the dysposycion off the
contre` . PASTON,I,415.134.4140

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_134:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,415.134.4141

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_135> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,430>

{ED:256._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1470,_5_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother , I comand me to yow , letyng yow wete +tat I sende yow a
letter in a boxe by Corby , and a nother by Gulmyn the gonnere whyche I
wote well is nat comen yit to yow ; wherffor I praye yow to remembre
the letter broght to yow by Coorby , and in cheff that the euydence
whyche ye wote offe be here in all the haste , PASTON,I,430.135.4142

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for by my trowthe and they be not her by Saterdaye itt is to me a
reproche , PASTON,I,430.135.4143

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue so largely appoyntyd and promysed ther-in .
PASTON,I,430.135.4144

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I thynke +tat Mestresse Kateryn Dodlee hathe lettyd yow ,
wherffor iff it soo be +tat Dauerse com in-to Norffolke ere than ye
haue serchyd fore the seyde euydence , he woll parcase desyre to helpe
yow , whyche nedythe nat to doo , PASTON,I,430.135.4145

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue seyde by the assent off Dauerse to my lorde off Wynchester
that he scholde helpe yow ; PASTON,I,430.135.4146

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neuyre the lesse Dauerse seythe he woll nowther desyre it nor besy hym
abowt it . PASTON,I,430.135.4147

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He schall com thedyre for other cawsesse , noo-thyng ageyn myn
aduantage , wherffor I praye yow make hym goode cheer and holde hym
company in that {in}_P ye maye . PASTON,I,430.135.4148

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also telle Johne Pampyng that the mayde at +te Bulle at Cluddys at
Westminster sent me on a tyme by hym to the Moore a rynge off goolde to
a tookne , whyche I hadde not off hym ; wherffor I wolde he scholde
sende it hyddre , PASTON,I,430.135.4149

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for sche most haue itt ageyn , ore ellys v s. , PASTON,I,430.135.4150

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was not hyrrys . PASTON,I,430.135.4151

<P_I,431>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow be redye , PASTON,I,431.135.4152

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the mater qwykennythe bothe-1 for yowe and yowres as well as for vs and
howrys . PASTON,I,431.135.4153

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for tydynges , my lorde Erchebysshop is at the Moore ,
PASTON,I,431.135.4154

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but ther is beleffte wyth hym dyuerse off the Kynges seruantes ,
PASTON,I,431.135.4155

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as I vnderstond he hathe lysence to tarye ther tyll he be sente
foore . PASTON,I,431.135.4156

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther be many folkes vppe in the Northe , soo +tat Percy is not able to
recyst them ; PASTON,I,431.135.4157

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo the Kyng hathe sente for hys feeod men to koom to hym ,
PASTON,I,431.135.4158

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he woll goo to putt them down , PASTON,I,431.135.4159

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soom seye +tat the Kynge ssholde come ageyn to London and that in
haste , PASTON,I,431.135.4160

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as itt is sayde Cortenayes be londyd in Deuenschyre
PASTON,I,431.135.4161

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and therre rewle . PASTON,I,431.135.4162

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , that +te Lordes Clarance and Warwyk wooll assaye to londe in
Ingelonde euyrye daye , as folkes feere . PASTON,I,431.135.4163

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow late not John Mylsent be longe from me , wyth as moche as
can be gaderyd , PASTON,I,431.135.4164

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also that ye wryght to me off all thynges that I haue wretyn to yow
fore , so that I maye haue answere off $euery {TEXT:euy} thynge .
PASTON,I,431.135.4165

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Other thynges Bachelere Waltere , berere here-off , schall informe yow
. PASTON,I,431.135.4166

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the Sondaye nexte beffor Seynt Lawrence Daye .
PASTON,I,431.135.4167

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my brother Edmonde is not yit remembryd . PASTON,I,431.135.4168

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hathe not to lyff wyth ; PASTON,I,431.135.4169

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thynke on hym , &c . PASTON,I,431.135.4170

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
LETTER:PASTON_135:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston , Kn. PASTON,I,431.135.4171

<Q_PAS_A_1471_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_136> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,439>

{ED:263._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1471,_15_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston or to John Paston , esquier , hyr
sone , in hast . </font> PASTON,I,439.136.4172

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght well belouyd brother , I comande me to yow , letyng yow wete +tat
I am in wellffare , I thanke God , and haue ben euyre syns +tat I spake
last wyth yow ; PASTON,I,439.136.4173

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and mervayle sore +tat ye sent neuer wryghtyng to me syns ye <P_I,440>
departyd . PASTON,I,440.136.4174

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I herde neuyre syn +tat tyme any worde owt off Norffolk .
PASTON,I,440.136.4175

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye myght att Bertelmev Feyre haue had massengerys j-nowe to London ,
PASTON,I,440.136.4176

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff ye had sent to Wykys he scholde haue conveyd it to me .
PASTON,I,440.136.4177

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I herde yister-daye +tat a worsted man off Norffolk +tat solde
worstedys at Wynchester seyde +tat my lord off Norffolk and my lady wer
on pylgrymage at Owre Lady on foote , and so they went to Caster ; and
+tat at Norwyche on scholde haue had large langage to yow and callyd
yow traytore , and pyked many quarellys to yow . PASTON,I,440.136.4178

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Sende me worde ther-off . PASTON,I,440.136.4179

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It were well doo +tat ye wer a lytell sewrere off yowr pardon than ye
be . PASTON,I,440.136.4180

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Auyse yow ; PASTON,I,440.136.4181

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme ye woll her-afftre ellys repent yow . PASTON,I,440.136.4182

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I vndrestonde +tat Bastarde Fauconbryg is owther hedyd or lyke to be ,
and hys brother bothe . PASTON,I,440.136.4183

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Som men seye he wolde haue deseruyd it , PASTON,I,440.136.4184

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som sey naye . PASTON,I,440.136.4185

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I purpose to be att London the fyrst daye off the terme .
PASTON,I,440.136.4186

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Sende me worde whethyre ye schall be ther or nott .
PASTON,I,440.136.4187

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I wolde wete whether ye haue spokyn wyth my lady off Norffolk or
not , and off hyr dysposicion , and the howsoldys , to me and to yow
wardes , and whether it be a possible to haue Caster ageyn and ther
goode wyllis , or nott . PASTON,I,440.136.4188

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And allso I praye yow vndrestande what felaschyp and guydyng is in
Caster , PASTON,I,440.136.4189

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and haue a spye resortyng in and owt ; PASTON,I,440.136.4190

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
so maye ye know the secretys a-monge them . PASTON,I,440.136.4191

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ther is moche adoo in the Northe , as men seyn . PASTON,I,440.136.4192

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow be ware off yowr guydyng , and in chyff off yowre langage ,
so +tat fro hense forthe by yowr langage noo man parceyue +tat ye fauor
any person contrary to +te Kynges plesure . PASTON,I,440.136.4193

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I vndrestonde +tat +te Lord Ryuers hathe lycence off +te Kynge to goo
to Portyngale , now wyth-in thys vij nyght . PASTON,I,440.136.4194

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow recomande me to my moodre , PASTON,I,440.136.4195

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and beseche hyr off hyr blyssyng on my be-halue . PASTON,I,440.136.4196

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I herde not from hyre thys x wekys , PASTON,I,440.136.4197

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nowther I wote not whether sche be payed off x li. at Sporle ore nott .
PASTON,I,440.136.4198

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme yis ; PASTON,I,440.136.4199

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
neuerthelesse Harry Halman is a false schrew . PASTON,I,440.136.4200

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For all my spekyng wyth hym my-selffe , and +ter-to +te {ED:daye}
assyngnyd by hym-selffe , wher as he scholde haue payed at Candelmes to
paye me , he hadd daye to paye Townesend tyll Fastyngonge ;
PASTON,I,440.136.4201

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and at Mydsomer I vnderstonde he had not payed Townesende , as
hym-selffe tolde me . PASTON,I,440.136.4202

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He hathe don me an hurte +terby more than {that_he_has_done} he wenythe
. PASTON,I,440.136.4203

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iffe he haue not payed my moodre I praye yow see +tat sche be payed ,
PASTON,I,440.136.4204

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and scende to hym for it ; PASTON,I,440.136.4205

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sende me worde how it is . PASTON,I,440.136.4206

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow scende me worde iff any off owre frendys or
wellwyllerys be dede , PASTON,I,440.136.4207

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I feer +tat ther is grete deth in Norwyche and in other borowghe
townese in Norffolk ; PASTON,I,440.136.4208

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I ensure yow it is the most vnyuersall dethe +tat euyre I wyst in
Ingelonde , PASTON,I,440.136.4209

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe I kan not her by <P_I,441> pylgrymes +tat passe +te
contre` , ner noon other man +tat rydethe er gothe any contre` , +tat
any borow town in Ingelonde is free from +tat sykenesse .
PASTON,I,441.136.4210

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God sease it whan it pleasyt hym . PASTON,I,441.136.4211

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wherffor , for Goddysake , late my moodre take heede to my yonge
brytheryn , that they be nat in noon place wher that sykenesse is
regnyng , nor that they dysport not wyth noon other yonge peple whyche
resortythe wher any sykenesse is . PASTON,I,441.136.4212

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff +ter be any off that syknesse ded or enffecte in Norwyche , for
Goddes sake lete hyre sende them to som frende off hyrse in-to +te
contre` , PASTON,I,441.136.4213

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and do ye +te same , by myn advyce . PASTON,I,441.136.4214

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Late my moodre rather remeve hyr howsolde in-to +te contre` .
PASTON,I,441.136.4215

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Euyn now Thyrston browt me worde fro Lundon +tat it was Doctore Aleyn
+tat cawsyd yowre troble +tat ye had at Norwych , and +tat John Pampyng
roode for a dyscharge fore yow and +tat he hathe sped well ;
PASTON,I,441.136.4216

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but hoghe , +tat wot I nott . PASTON,I,441.136.4217

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff ye be cleer owt off Doctore Aleyn danger , kepe yow ther
PASTON,I,441.136.4218

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and here-afftre ye maye schoffe as well at hys carte .
PASTON,I,441.136.4219

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me worde of all the forme off hys delyng wyth yow .
PASTON,I,441.136.4220

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I had almost spoke wyth Mestresse An Hault , PASTON,I,441.136.4221

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I dyd not . PASTON,I,441.136.4222

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuyre thelesse thys next terme I hope to take on weye wyth hyre ore
othere . PASTON,I,441.136.4223

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Sche is agreyd to speke wyth me , PASTON,I,441.136.4224

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sche hopythe to doo me ease , as sche saythe .
PASTON,I,441.136.4225

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me worde hoghe ye doo wyth my lady Elysabeth
Boghschere ; PASTON,I,441.136.4226

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ye haue a lytell chaffyd it , PASTON,I,441.136.4227

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I can not tell howe . PASTON,I,441.136.4228

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Sende me worde whether ye be in better hope ore werse .
PASTON,I,441.136.4229

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I her seye +tat the Erle off Oxenffordys bretheryn be goon owt off
sceyntewarye . PASTON,I,441.136.4230

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr Thomas Fulfforthe is goon owt off sceyntewarye
PASTON,I,441.136.4231

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and a gret felaschyp fettchyd hym , a iij=xx= PASTON,I,441.136.4232

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and they sey +tat wyth-in v myle off London he was {ED:wyth} cc men ,
PASTON,I,441.136.4233

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and no man wotethe where he is become not yit . PASTON,I,441.136.4234

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Lordes Hastyngys and Howerd be in Caleys PASTON,I,441.136.4235

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and haue it pesebely , PASTON,I,441.136.4236

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Syr Walter Wrettesle` and Syr Ieffrey Gate be comyn thense
PASTON,I,441.136.4237

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and woll be at London thys daye , as it is seyde .
PASTON,I,441.136.4238

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Waltham besyd Wynchester the daye nex Holy Roode Daye .
PASTON,I,441.136.4239

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_136:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,441.136.4240

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_137> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,442>

{ED:264._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1471,_28_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To hys well belovyd John Paston , esquier , at Norwyche , or to
Mestresse Margret hys moodre . </font> PASTON,I,442.137.4241

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I comande me to yow , letyng yow weet +tat I vndrestonde +tat +te
Duchesse off Suffolk and +te Duke of Norffolk concelle jntend verrely
thys terme in the begynnyng to comence a-geyn the appelys ageyn me and
yow and other off owr seruantys , wherffor itt is full convenyent +tat
we take goode heede and ryght goode advyce how to guyde vs for itt ,
and whether it is convenyent for me to appyre or nott ; wher-in I wolde
, as well as in other materys , fayne knowe yowre advyce and comon wyth
yow and other off my frendes er I joparte any sertayn weye ,
PASTON,I,442.137.4242

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for in my conseyt I most thys terme take oon wey or other . Wherffor I
praye yow , iff ye maye in any wyse , +tat ye wolde be her at London
wyth-in iiij dayes afftre Seynt Feythe , as well for the materys above
wretyn as for a fynall conclusion to be taken wyth Mestresse An Hault
and wyth all other folkys . PASTON,I,442.137.4243

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I vndrestande be Juddy +tat he hathe spoken wyth yowr cosyn
Sampson at +te Barse , PASTON,I,442.137.4244

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he promyttyd Juddy +tat he scholde hym-selffe haue spoken wyth yow
er thys tym . PASTON,I,442.137.4245

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He seyde alsso +tat he hathe wretyn to yow twyes or thryes ;
PASTON,I,442.137.4246

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
howe it is syns I wote not . PASTON,I,442.137.4247

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde fayne haue the mesure wher my fadre lythe at Bromholm , bothe
the thyknesse and compase off the peler at hys hed and from that the
space to +te alter , and the thyknesse off that awtre and jmagery off
tymbre werk , and what hyght the arche is to +te gronde off +te jlde ,
and how hye the grovnde off the qwyre is hyer than the grownde off the
jlde . PASTON,I,442.137.4248

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yowe late the mesure by pakthred be taken , or ell
mesured by yerde , how moche is from the northe gate ther the brygge
was at Gressham to +te sowthe wall , and in lyke forme from the este
syde to +te west ; also the hyght off the este wall and the $hyght off
the sowthest towre from +te grownde , iff ye maye easely .
PASTON,I,442.137.4249

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Alsso what breede euery towre is wyth-in +te wall , and whych towre is
moore than other wyth-in ; PASTON,I,442.137.4250

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
alsso how manye fote or what brede eche towre takythe , wythin jche
cornere off +te quadrate <P_I,443> ovyrethwert the dorys , and how many
taylorys yerdys is from +te moote syde wher the brygg was to +te hyghe
weye , or to +te heddge all a-longe the entre` , and what brede the
entre` is be-twyen +te dykys . PASTON,I,443.137.4251

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow , iff ye haue a leyser in any wyse , se thys doone
yowr-selffe iff ye maye ; PASTON,I,443.137.4252

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys iff Pampyng do it , or who +tat ye thynke can doo it , I wolle
spende xx d. , or as ye seme , to haue the sertayn off euery thyng
her-in . PASTON,I,443.137.4253

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for my faderys tombe , I charge yow se it yowre-selffe ,
PASTON,I,443.137.4254

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and when I speke wyth yow I woll tell yow the cawses why +tat I desyre
thys to be doon . PASTON,I,443.137.4255

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys , the Kyng and +te Qwyen and moche other pepell ar
ryden and goon to Canterbury , neuyr so moche peple seyn in pylgrymage
her-to-foor at ones , as men seye . PASTON,I,443.137.4256

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Alsso it is seyde +tat +te Erle off Penbroke is taken in-to Brettayn ,
PASTON,I,443.137.4257

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and men seye +tat the Kyng schold haue delyuere` off hym hastely ;
PASTON,I,443.137.4258

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som seye +tat the Kynge off France woll se hym saffe and schall
sett hym at lyberte` ageyn . PASTON,I,443.137.4259

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , Thomas Fauconbrydge hys hed was yesterdaye sett vppeon London
Brydge lokyng in-to Kent warde , PASTON,I,443.137.4260

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and men seye +tat hys brother was sore hurte and scope to seyntwarye to
Beuerle` . PASTON,I,443.137.4261

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr Thomas Fulfforthe escapyd owt off Westminster wyth an c sperys , as
men seye , PASTON,I,443.137.4262

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is in-to Deuenshyre , PASTON,I,443.137.4263

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther he hathe strekyn off Syr John Crokkerys hed and kylt an other
knyght off the Corteneys , as men seye . PASTON,I,443.137.4264

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde ye hadd yowre verrey pardon at onys , wherffor I praye yow
fayle not to be at London wyth-in iiij daye afftre Seynt Feythe .
PASTON,I,443.137.4265

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye schall do goode in many thynges , PASTON,I,443.137.4266

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I praye yow sende me worde her-off by the next massenger ,
PASTON,I,443.137.4267

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff it come to Mestresse Elysabeth Hyggens at +te Blak Swan sche
schall comveye it to me , PASTON,I,443.137.4268

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I woll not fayle to be there at London ageyn wyth-in thys vj dayes
. PASTON,I,443.137.4269

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Mestresse Elysabeth hathe a son , PASTON,I,443.137.4270

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and was delyueryd wyth-in ij day afftre Seynt Bertelmew ,
PASTON,I,443.137.4271

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hyre dowtre A. H. was +te next daye afftre delyueryd off an other
sone , as sche seythe xj wekys er hyre tyme . PASTON,I,443.137.4272

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It was crystened John , PASTON,I,443.137.4273

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is ded ; PASTON,I,443.137.4274

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God save all . PASTON,I,443.137.4275

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomore tyll I speke wyth yow . PASTON,I,443.137.4276

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London on Mychellmesse Euyn . PASTON,I,443.137.4277

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,443.137.4278

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow late som wytty felaw , or ellys yowre selff , goo to
+te townes ther as thes ij women dwelle , and inquire whether they be
maryed <P_I,444> syns and ageyn , or not ; PASTON,I,444.137.4279

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I holde the hoorys weddyd , PASTON,I,444.137.4280

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff they be than the appelys wer abbatyd ther-by .
PASTON,I,444.137.4281

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I remember not ther names ; PASTON,I,444.137.4282

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ye knowe them better than I . PASTON,I,444.137.4283

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
LETTER:PASTON_137:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Alsso in +te schreffvys bookys ther maye ye fynde off them .
PASTON,I,444.137.4284

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_138> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,445>

{ED:266._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1472,_8_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my most honorable and tendre $moodre , Margrette Paston , be
thys letter delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,445.138.4285

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Most worschypffull and kynde moodre , I comande me to yow
PASTON,I,445.138.4286

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and beseche yow off yowre dayly blyssyng and remembraunce .
PASTON,I,445.138.4287

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it yow to wete thatt I haue my pardon , as +te berere heroff can
jnfforme yowe , for comffort wheroffe I haue been the merier thys
Crystmesse , and haue been parte ther-off wyth Syr George Browen and
wyth my lady myn aunte hys wyffe . PASTON,I,445.138.4288

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And be-for Twelthe I come to my lorde Archebysshope , wher I haue hadde
as greete cheer , and ben as welkom , as I cowde devyse ,
PASTON,I,445.138.4289

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff I hadde ben in sewerte` +tat Castre weere hadde ageyn I wolde
haue comen homewardes <P_I,446> thys daye ; wherffor I sende thys man
home nowe to late yow haue knowleche theroff , and my brother bothe ,
in chyeffe for thys cause , that iff theer be any crafftye delaye by
Sothewell or Brandon , thatt than my brother maye late them haue
knowleche ther-off , soo thatt my lordes concell off Norffolk maye
vndrestand thatt my lorde neer noon other maye haue it off +te Kynges
<em> ... </em> as they $haue been halffe <em> ... </em> off
heer-to-foore ; besechyng yow to hast my brother in laboryng ther-abowt
iff <em> ... </em> be <em> ... </em> soo thatt itt maye ones ageyn come
to Crysten mennes handes . PASTON,I,446.138.4290

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And by the latter ende off thys terme , iffe itt be hadde ageyn , I
purpose to come home and see yow thys Lente and sette my londe in
better rewle than {in}_P itt hathe been heer-to-foore and repayre vppe
my howses . PASTON,I,446.138.4291

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I beseche yow to remember my brother to doo hys deueyre thatt I
maye haue ageyn my stuffe , my bookes and vestmentys , and my beddyng ,
how so euyre hee doo , thoghe I scholde gyffe xx=ti= scutes by hys
advyse to my lady Brandon or som other goode felawe .
PASTON,I,446.138.4292

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for any tydynges , ther be noon heer saffe +tat the Kynge hathe
kepte a ryall Crystmesse , and now they seye +tat hastelye he woll
northe , and some seye +tat he woll in-to Walys , and some seye +tat he
woll in-to +te west contre` . PASTON,I,446.138.4293

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Qween Margrett , I vndreston +tat sche is remeuyd from
Wyndeshore to Walyngfforthe nyghe to Ewhelme , my lady off Suffolk
place in Oxenfforthe schyre . PASTON,I,446.138.4294

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And men seye +tat the Lorde Ryuerse schyppyd on Crystmesse euyn in-to
Portyngale warde ; PASTON,I,446.138.4295

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I ame nott serteyn . PASTON,I,446.138.4296

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also the {ED:r} schalle be a convocacion off the clergye in all haste ,
whyche men deeme wyll avayle the Kynge a dyme and an halffe , some seye
. PASTON,I,446.138.4297

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beseche Gode sende yow goode heele and $more joye in on yeer than ye
haue hadde thys vij . PASTON,I,446.138.4298

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn att the Moore the viij daye off Janeuer A=o= E. iiij xj=o= .
PASTON,I,446.138.4299

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_138:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By yowre soone John Paston , K. PASTON,I,446.138.4300

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_139> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,447>

{ED:267._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1472,_17_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A Jehan Paston , esquiere , soit done` . PASTON,I,447.139.4301

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother , I comande me to yow PASTON,I,447.139.4302

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and praye yow to loke vppe my Temple off Glasse , and sende it me by
the berer heroff . PASTON,I,447.139.4303

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for tydyngys , I haue spoken wyth Mestresse Anne Hault at a
praty leyser PASTON,I,447.139.4304

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and , blyssyd be God , we be as ferfforthe as we weer to-foore ,
PASTON,I,447.139.4305

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo I hoope we schall contenew ; PASTON,I,447.139.4306

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I promysed hyre that at the next leyser that I kowd fynde ther-too
+tat I wolde come ageyn and see hyre , whyche wyll take a leysere as
{ED:I}_NP-SBJ deeme . PASTON,I,447.139.4307

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now syn thys obseruance is ones doon I purpose nott to tempte God noo
moore soo . PASTON,I,447.139.4308

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yisterdaye the Kynge , the Qween , my lordes off Claraunce and
Glowcester wente to Scheen to pardon , men sey nott alle in cheryte` .
PASTON,I,447.139.4309

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What wyll falle men can nott seye . PASTON,I,447.139.4310

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kynge entretyth my lorde off Clarance for my lorde off Glowcester ,
PASTON,I,447.139.4311

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as itt is seyde he answerythe that he maye weell haue my ladye hys
suster in lawe , PASTON,I,447.139.4312

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
butt they schall parte no lyvelod , as he seythe ;
PASTON,I,447.139.4313

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so whatt wyll falle can I nott seye . PASTON,I,447.139.4314

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys daye I purpose to see my lady off Norffolk ageyn , in goode howre
be it . PASTON,I,447.139.4315

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther is proferyd me marchauntys for Sporle woode ,
PASTON,I,447.139.4316

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God sende me goode sale whan I be-gynne ; PASTON,I,447.139.4317

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+tat poore woode is soore manased and thrett . PASTON,I,447.139.4318

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yitt woote I nott whethyr I come home beffoore Esterne or nott ;
PASTON,I,447.139.4319

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I schall sende yow worde . PASTON,I,447.139.4320

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No moor , &c . PASTON,I,447.139.4321

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the fyrst Tewesdaye off Lenton . PASTON,I,447.139.4322

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_139:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,447.139.4323

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_140> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,449>

{ED:269._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1472,_4_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A Johan Paston , esquyere , soit done` . PASTON,I,449.140.4324

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Worshypffull and weell belovyd brother , I recomaund me to yow , letyng
yow weet +tat I sente yow a letter and a rynge wyth a dyamand , in
whyche letter ye myght well conceyue what I wold ye scholde do wyth +te
same ryng , wyth manye other tydyngys and thyngys whyche I prayed yowe
to haue doon for me ; whyche letter Boton had the beryng off .
PASTON,I,449.140.4325

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is soo nowe +tat I vndrestond that he is owther deed ore ellys harde
eskapyd , wheroff I am ryght heuye , and am not serteyn whethyre the
seyd letter and rynge come to yowre handys ore nott .
PASTON,I,449.140.4326

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wolde nott that letter were seyn wyth som folkys , wherffor I praye
yow take goode heede hoghe thatt letter comythe to yowre handys , hooll
or brokyn ; PASTON,I,449.140.4327

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in especiall I praye yow gete it iff ye haue it nott .
PASTON,I,449.140.4328

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I praye yow feele my lady off Norffolkys dysposicion to me wardys
, and whethyre she toke any dysplesure at my langage , ore mokkyd ore
dysdeyned my wordys whyche I hadd to hyre at Yarmothe be-twyen the
place where I fyrst mett wyth hyre and hyre lodgyng .
PASTON,I,449.140.4329

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Fore my lady Brandon <P_I,450> and Syr William also axhyd me what
wordys I had had to hyre at that tyme . PASTON,I,450.140.4330

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They seyde +tat my lady seyde I gaff hyre ther-off , and +tat I sholde
haue seyde +tat my lady was worthye to haue a lordys soon in hyre belye
, PASTON,I,450.140.4331

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore she cowde cheryshe itt and dele warlye wyth it .
PASTON,I,450.140.4332

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In trowthe , owther the same ore wordys moche lyke I had to hyre ,
whyche wordys I ment as I seyde . PASTON,I,450.140.4333

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They leye to +tat I seyde she toke hyre ease . PASTON,I,450.140.4334

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I scholde haue seyde +tat my ladye was off $stature goode and had
sydes longe and large , so that I was in goode hope she sholde bere a
fayre chylde ; PASTON,I,450.140.4335

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he was nott lacyd nore bracyd jne to hys peyn , but +tat she leff hym
rome to pleye hym in . PASTON,I,450.140.4336

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They seye that I seyde my lady was large and grete , and that itt
sholde haue rome jnow to goo owt att . PASTON,I,450.140.4337

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus whyther my lady mokk me or theye I woote nott .
PASTON,I,450.140.4338

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I mente weell , by my trowthe , to hyre and to +tat she is wyth , as
any he +tat owythe heere best wyll in Ingelond . PASTON,I,450.140.4339

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye can by any meene weete whethyre my ladye take it to dysplesure or
nowt , or whether she thynke I mokkyd hyre , or iff she wyght it but
lewdnesse off my-selffe , I praye yow sende me worde ,
PASTON,I,450.140.4340

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I woot nott whethyre I maye trust thys Lady Brandon ore nott .
PASTON,I,450.140.4341

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , os fore tydynges , nowe heer be but fewe saff that , as I
vndrestande , jmbassatorys off Bretayn shall come to London to-morowe ,
and men seye that the Lorde Ryuerse and Scalys shall hastelye come hom
, and men seye +tat ther is many off the sowdeorys +tat went to hym
in-to Bretayn been deede off the flyxe and othere jpedemye , and +tat
the remenant sholde come hom wyth the Lorde Skalys ;
PASTON,I,450.140.4342

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and som seye +tat thees jmbassatorys come for moore men .
PASTON,I,450.140.4343

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thys daye rennyth a tale +tat the Duke off Bretayne sholde be ded .
PASTON,I,450.140.4344

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I beleeff it nott . PASTON,I,450.140.4345

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent yow worde off an hawke ; PASTON,I,450.140.4346

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I herde nott from yow syns . PASTON,I,450.140.4347

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I do and shall doo +tat is possible in suche a neede .
PASTON,I,450.140.4348

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I canne nott vndrestond that my lorde off Norffolk shall come
heere thys tyme , wherffore I am in a greet angonye howe js best fore
me to sywe to hym fore rehauyng off my place . PASTON,I,450.140.4349

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tat goode lorde woot full lytell how moche harme he doothe me , and
how lytell goode ore worshyp it dothe hym . PASTON,I,450.140.4350

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow sende me yowre advyce . PASTON,I,450.140.4351

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No moore to yowe at thys tyme , but God haue yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,450.140.4352

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London +te iiij daye off Novembre A=o= E. iiij=ti= xij=o= .
PASTON,I,450.140.4353

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I feere me +tat jdelnesse ledythe yowre reyne . PASTON,I,450.140.4354

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow rathere remembre Syr Hughe Lavernoys tyll yowre hauke come
. PASTON,I,450.140.4355

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_140:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,450.140.4356

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_141> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,451>

{ED:270._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1472,_8_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A John Paston , esquyer , soyt done` . PASTON,I,451.141.4357

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother , I comand me to yow , letyng yow weet +tat wheer my moodre
desyreth +tat I sholde sende worde to my fermorys off Sporle that they
sholde paye to my moodre x marke for my brother William , it weere nowe
to short a warnyng , PASTON,I,451.141.4358

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue assyngnyd it to Townesende , the hoole as fore the yeer past
. PASTON,I,451.141.4359

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue alweyis offryd it hyre PASTON,I,451.141.4360

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she was neuyre ar nowe abowt to receyue it , PASTON,I,451.141.4361

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as yitt it nedyth not greetlye fore no charge +tat she hathe moore
than she was wont to haue abowt hym . PASTON,I,451.141.4362

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche spendythe nott v mark by yeer on hym , as I conceyve .
PASTON,I,451.141.4363

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neverthelesse , as for the next yeer I promyse yow she shall haue it
for me , PASTON,I,451.141.4364

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys I shall purueye as weell for hym . PASTON,I,451.141.4365

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the aqwytance off the Bysshop off Wynchester , I shall
doo for hyre as my part is to doo . PASTON,I,451.141.4366

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall gete it iff I can , PASTON,I,451.141.4367

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff I $can $not {TEXT:cannott} , iff it be proffitable for hyre I
wolde hyre consell had som other meene to gete it .
PASTON,I,451.141.4368

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff I gete it I am worthy thanke , PASTON,I,451.141.4369

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff I gete it nott I am worthy no magrye . PASTON,I,451.141.4370

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall doo as I can . PASTON,I,451.141.4371

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for my suster Annys comyng hyddr , I shall puruey for hure
wyth myn aunt iff I can , iff my moodre will depart wyth c s. be yere ,
wher-off I am not serteyn . PASTON,I,451.141.4372

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff she wer heer at my settyng and my moodr had onys payed c s. for on
yeer , I feer me she wolde be weery and lothe to paye an other c s. for
the next . PASTON,I,451.141.4373

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse I woll purueye for hyre thoghe I sholde paye the c s. by
yeer my-selffe , PASTON,I,451.141.4374

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yit she is nott my dowtre . PASTON,I,451.141.4375

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the c li. to be payed in x yer , it is a strange proffre to a
ientylwomanys mariage ward . PASTON,I,451.141.4376

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By my trowthe , I offryd c marke wyth hyre , to be payed on a daye ,
besyde +tat +tat my moodre woll depart wyth , to haue had on that I
soppose ye knowe , PASTON,I,451.141.4377

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it is not lyke to bee ; PASTON,I,451.141.4378

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it greuys me to remembre the onkyndnesse off the worlde .
PASTON,I,451.141.4379

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse I hope to see a remedye ther-in . PASTON,I,451.141.4380

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Folkys weene to be ther owne best freendys PASTON,I,451.141.4381

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and are there owne <P_I,452> moost fooys . PASTON,I,452.141.4382

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Folkys be roonne so ferre ther-on that they woot not wher they be and
growe paste shame . PASTON,I,452.141.4383

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore the delyueraunce off the rynge to Mestresse Jane Rothon , I
dowt nott but it shall be doon in the best wyse so +tat ye shall geet
me a thank moore than the rynge and I are worthe ore deserue .
PASTON,I,452.141.4384

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wheer ye goo to my laydy off Norffolkys and wyll be theere att the
takyng off hyre chambre , I praye God spede yow , and Owre Ladye hyre
to hyre plesure , wyth as easye labore to overkom that she is abowt as
euyre had any lady or gentyll-woman saff Owre Lady heer-selffe .
PASTON,I,452.141.4385

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And soo I hope she shall to hyre greet joye and all owres ,
PASTON,I,452.141.4386

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I prey God it maye be lyke hyre in worshyp , wytt , gentylnesse ,
and euery thynge excepte the verry verry thynge . PASTON,I,452.141.4387

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the hawke +tat I sende yow , thanke me for it ,
PASTON,I,452.141.4388

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God save it , PASTON,I,452.141.4389

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I trow she woll neuer be nowght , as Cromer seythe .
PASTON,I,452.141.4390

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse it is the best +tat I can geet , wherffor prennes en gree
, PASTON,I,452.141.4391

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+ter is noon othere remedee as yit , PASTON,I,452.141.4392

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but iff I kan geet a better ye shall it habbe . PASTON,I,452.141.4393

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow sende me worde off the ij letteris +tat I sent yow .
PASTON,I,452.141.4394

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow recomand me to Sampson . PASTON,I,452.141.4395

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am glad that he is ageyn in favore wyth my lorde and my ladye .
PASTON,I,452.141.4396

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse I am sorye +tat Rygge so hathe bytyn hym soo by the bygge
, and that lytell Qwayll pynchyd hys pendaunt so nyghe hys tayle .
PASTON,I,452.141.4397

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as fore the pye that ye sent me worde off I remytt it to yowre
dyscrecion . PASTON,I,452.141.4398

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No moore to yow at thys tyme , but I woll sleepe an howre +te lengere
to-morow by-cawse I wrote so longe and late to-nyght .
PASTON,I,452.141.4399

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn betwyen +te viij and +te ix daye off Novembre A=o= xij=o= E.
iiij=ti= . PASTON,I,452.141.4400

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
LETTER:PASTON_141:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,452.141.4401

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_142> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442>
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,453>

{ED:271._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_OR_JOHN_PASTON_III_1472,_22_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston , or to John Paston , esquiere , or
to Roose dwyllyng affore ther gate to delyuer to them . </font>
PASTON,I,453.142.4402

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it yow to weete +tat I have opteyned letterys from the Kynge to
my lorde off Norffolke , to my lady off Norffolke , and to ther concell
, whyche letter to there concell is nott superscrybyd for cawse we wyst
nott serteyn whyche off the councell sholde be present when the
massengere cowme . PASTON,I,453.142.4403

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I therffor thynke +tat thoos namys most be somwhatt by yowre advyce ,
PASTON,I,453.142.4404

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for-get nott Gornaye , nor yitt Brome , iff ye thynke so best , nor
Sowthewelle . PASTON,I,453.142.4405

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust to my cosyn Gornaye and on-to Brom and Barnard in cheffe ,
PASTON,I,453.142.4406

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as to Bernarde brothere I praye yow to take hys advyce ,
PASTON,I,453.142.4407

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I hope he is my welwyller , as ye know ; PASTON,I,453.142.4408

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iffe he do me parffyght ease in thys mater I thynke verrely in tyme
to come to gyff hym xx scutys , and yit a goode turne whan so euer it
lythe in my power . PASTON,I,453.142.4409

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kynge hathe specially doon for me in thys case
PASTON,I,453.142.4410

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hathe pitte me , PASTON,I,453.142.4411

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so have +te lordys , in ryght greete comfort +tat iff thys fayle
+tat I shalle haue ondelayed justyce ; PASTON,I,453.142.4412

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hathe sente a man off worshyp and in greet favore wyth hym on
thys massage , whyche hathe nott offte ben seyne , whyche gentylman kan
well do hys mastrys massage and brynge trywe reporte .
PASTON,I,453.142.4413

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have gevyn hym v li. for hys costys ; PASTON,I,453.142.4414

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God sende hym and yow goode spede in thees werkys .
PASTON,I,453.142.4415

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I feere thatt he shall nott speke wyth my lady , for +tat she hathe
takyn hyre chambre . PASTON,I,453.142.4416

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff she be my verry goode ladye , as she hathe seyde hertoffore +tat
she wolde be , I hope +tat she wolle speke wyth hym .
PASTON,I,453.142.4417

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse I praye yow by the meanys off Mestresse Jahne Rothen that
{ED:ye}_NP-SBJ will have my ladye mevyd fore me , PASTON,I,453.142.4418

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wher +tat herre-to-fore I wolde have departyd wyth c $marke
{TEXT:mrke} to have hadde hyre goode helpe and to be restoryd to my
place , whyche nott acceptyd I tolde my seyde lady +tat I feeryd +tat
my power sholde natt be ther-afftre to gyff so large a plesyre ;
PASTON,I,453.142.4419

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for at +tat tyme I was in hope +tat the Bysshop off Wynchester sholde
have payd it , thoghe it hadde drawen a c li . PASTON,I,453.142.4420

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yit , for as moche as men may nott lure none hawkys wyth empty handys ,
I wolde yitt agre` to gyffe my lady xx li. for an horse and a sadell so
+tat I be restoryd to my place , and thatt doone to have a relesse off
my lorde and my gounys and bokys to be <P_I,454> restoryd iff it maye
bee . PASTON,I,454.142.4421

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse thys mony is nott yit redy wyth me .
PASTON,I,454.142.4422

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I remytte thys to yowre dyscressyonys . PASTON,I,454.142.4423

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , iff it be soo +tat itt be thowte behovefull , I thynke +tat
thoghe nowthere Slyfelde nore ye , brother John , maye come in-to my
ladyes chambre , +tat my moodre , iff she weer at Norwyche , she myght
speke wyth hyre , for +tat she is a woman and off worshyppe .
PASTON,I,454.142.4424

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thynke +tat my moodre sholde meve my lady moche .
PASTON,I,454.142.4425

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thynke +tat ther most be som body for me havyng auctoryte` to
conclude for me , or ellys knowyng myn entente ; PASTON,I,454.142.4426

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ellys they myght make delaye , and seye they wolle at +te Kyngys
enstance comon wyth me , PASTON,I,454.142.4427

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
neuer the lesse I was nott ther present . Wherffor , rather than fayle
yff neede be I wolle wyth-owte any abode iff I heere from yow come home
, PASTON,I,454.142.4428

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Slyfelde is agreyd to tary the {ED:r} a vij nyghte for my sake so
+tat the mater take effecte . PASTON,I,454.142.4429

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I praye yow make hym goode cheere , PASTON,I,454.142.4430

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff it be so that he tarye , I most remembre hys costys .
PASTON,I,454.142.4431

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therffor iff I shall be sent for and he tery at Norwyche ther-whylys it
wer best to sette hys horse at +te Maydes Hedde , PASTON,I,454.142.4432

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shalle content for ther expencys . PASTON,I,454.142.4433

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye maye largely sey on my behalve for suche servyse +tat I
sholde do to my lorde and lady hereaffter , whyche by my trowthe I
thynke to doo . PASTON,I,454.142.4434

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse to sey +tat I woll be hys sworyn man , I was neuer yitt
lordys sworyn man , PASTON,I,454.142.4435

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yit have I doone goode seruyce and nott leffte any at hys most neede
nere for feere . PASTON,I,454.142.4436

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as Gode helpe me I thynke my lady shalle have my servyce a-bove any
lady erthely , wheche she scholde weell have knowyn had I been in suche
case as I hadde nott been alweye +te werse welkome for that on off myn
herandys alweye was vndrestande +tat it was for Caster , whyche was
nott acceptable and I euyre the werse welkome . PASTON,I,454.142.4437

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , brother , I ame concludyd wyth my lorde for yow +tat ye shalle
be at Caleys iff ye list , and have iij men in wagys vndre yow ,
wheroff my lorde seythe +tat William Lovedaye most be on tyll tyme +tat
he have purveyd othere rome for hym . PASTON,I,454.142.4438

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff ye be dysposyd to goo , as I tolde hym +tat ye weer , yitt wer it
nott best +tat ye lete it be knowe tyll thys mater be doone ,
PASTON,I,454.142.4439

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than ye maye acordyng to yowre promyse lete my ladye have knowleche
ther-off . PASTON,I,454.142.4440

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuer +te lesse my lorde shall be here wyth-in xx dayes or ther-abowt ;
PASTON,I,454.142.4441

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
iff ye come thys weye ye maye speke wyth hym . PASTON,I,454.142.4442

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuer the lesse ye shall nott lose no tyme iff ye weer at Caleys at
thys owre , PASTON,I,454.142.4443

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my lorde promysed me +tat he wolde wryght to Elkenhed , +te
tresorer at Caleys , for yow by the next massenger thatt went .
PASTON,I,454.142.4444

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ther hathe Perauntys wyffe wryte to me +tat Bernaye seruyth hyre
onkyndely . PASTON,I,454.142.4445

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He owythe hyre xxxij s . PASTON,I,454.142.4446

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she is in noon hope +tat euyre he woll come ther ageyn .
PASTON,I,454.142.4447

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sende me worde iff he wyll . PASTON,I,454.142.4448

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He shall nott lyff so weell and trywly to-geedr , I trowe , but iff he
goo thyddre . PASTON,I,454.142.4449

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hadde comen home butt +tat I ame nott yitt verrely purveyd for
payment for my oncle <P_I,455> William +te xxvj daye off thys $monyth ,
PASTON,I,455.142.4450

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he dothe me harme PASTON,I,455.142.4451

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he delythe so oncurteysly wyth Towneshende , PASTON,I,455.142.4452

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he wille nott yitt paye hym the c $marke {TEXT:mrke} payeable att
Halowmesse whyche he hadde a monythe affore ; wherffor I feere +tat
Towneshende wille nott do for me ageyn . PASTON,I,455.142.4453

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall doo as I kan . PASTON,I,455.142.4454

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Sondaye next Seynt Clement . PASTON,I,455.142.4455

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:30
RECIPIENT:MARGARET[N.MAUTBY][0R_JOHN_PASTON_III]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_142:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,455.142.4456

<Q_PAS_A_1473_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_143> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,455>

{ED:272._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1473,_3_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esqwyere , ore to Mestresse Margret Paston hys
moodre , be thys letter delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,455.143.4457

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Weell belovyd brother , I comand me to yow , letyng yow weet +tat I
wrote yow a letter +te xxij daye off Januare whyche was delyueryd to
Thomas Elys at Caleys the seyde daye , wenyng to me +tat he sholde haue
ben in Norffolk wyth-in vj or vij dayes afftre , PASTON,I,455.143.4458

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but now I vndrestand that thys letter is lyke to be wyth yow as sone as
it . PASTON,I,455.143.4459

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It is so now +tat I suppose verrely to be at London by the xiij or
xiiij daye off Feverere but iff wynde ore wedre cawse it ; at whyche
daye , acordyng as the other letter spekyth off , I beseche my moodre
+tat Playtere maye mete wyth me there , lyke as he and I comonyd
towchyng the maner off Sporle , PASTON,I,455.143.4460

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I trust to God that that mater shall be easyd .
PASTON,I,455.143.4461

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow take goode heed to +te letter +tat yonge Thomas Elys
hathe the beryng off , to weete whether it hathe been oponyd ore nott ;
PASTON,I,455.143.4462

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+te worde is full false . PASTON,I,455.143.4463

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys heer , ther bee but fewe saff +tat +te Duke off Borgoyn
and my lady hys wyffe farethe well ; PASTON,I,455.143.4464

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I was wyth them on Thorysdaye last past at Gawnt .
PASTON,I,455.143.4465

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Peter Metteney farethe weell and Mestresse Gretkyn bothe ,
PASTON,I,455.143.4466

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Babekyn recomand hyre to yow . PASTON,I,455.143.4467

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She hathe ben verry seke , PASTON,I,455.143.4468

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but it hathe doon hyre goode PASTON,I,455.143.4469

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for she is fayrer and slenderer than she was . PASTON,I,455.143.4470

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And she cowde make me no cheere , PASTON,I,455.143.4471

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but alwey my sawse was ' How faret Master John yowre brother ? ' ,
wher-wyth I was wrothe and spake a jalous worde are too , dysdeynyng
+tat she shulde care so moche for yow when +tat I was present .
PASTON,I,455.143.4472

<P_I,456>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow make a goode bargeyn for my ferme barly in Fledge , so that
I myght haue mony now at my beyng in Ingelond , whyche shall not
contynew past a monyth by lyklyhod . PASTON,I,456.143.4473

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I pray yow take goode heede to myn olde stuffe at Norwyche soo
that it appeyre nott , PASTON,I,456.143.4474

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sende me worde to Hoxonys in wrygtyng what goode +te bysshop ded
fore me att Framynham and how my lorde , my lady , and all the cort are
dysposyd to me wardys . PASTON,I,456.143.4475

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I herd also seye +tat my ladye and yowrys , Dame Margret Veere , is ded
, PASTON,I,456.143.4476

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God haue hyre sowle . PASTON,I,456.143.4477

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff I weer not sorye for herre I trowe ye haue been .
PASTON,I,456.143.4478

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore to yow at thys tyme , but All-myghty Good haue yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,456.143.4479

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Caleys +te iij daye off Februarye A=o= r. r. E. iiij xij=o= .
PASTON,I,456.143.4480

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_143:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,456.143.4481

<Q_PAS_A_1473_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_144> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,460>

{ED:275._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1473,_16_APRIL}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquiere , in Norffolk . </font>
PASTON,I,460.144.4482

{ED:UNDER_THE_ADDRESS,_AUTOGRAPH:}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow iff W. Mylsent go froo yow +tat he myght come to me to
Caleys . PASTON,I,460.144.4483

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I woll haue hym . PASTON,I,460.144.4484

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wyrsshypffull and ryght hertyly belowyd brother , I recomande me on-to
yow , letyng yow wete +tat on Wednysdaye last past I wrote yow a letter
wheroff John Garbalde had the beryng , promyttyng me +tat ye shold haue
it at Norwyche thys daye ore ellys to-morowe in the mornyng ; wherin I
praye yowe to take a labore acordyng afftre the tenure off the same ,
and +tat I maye haue an answere at London to Hoxon iff any massenger
come , as $euere {TEXT:eue} I maye doo fore yow . PASTON,I,460.144.4485

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys , there was a truse taken at Brussellys abut the xxvj
daye off Marche last past be-twyn the Duke off Borgoyn and +te Frense
Kyngys jmbassatorys and Master William Atclyff for the Kyng heere ,
whyche is a pese be londe and water tyll the fyrst daye off Apryll nowe
next comyng , betwyen Fraunce and Ingelond and also +te Dukys londes .
PASTON,I,460.144.4486

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God holde it for euere PASTON,I,460.144.4487

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and grace be . PASTON,I,460.144.4488

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , the Erle off Oxenfford was on Saterdaye at Depe ,
PASTON,I,460.144.4489

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is purposyd in-to Skotlond wyth a xij schyppys .
PASTON,I,460.144.4490

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I mystrust that werke . PASTON,I,460.144.4491

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , there be in London many flyeng talys seyng that +ter shold be a
werke , PASTON,I,460.144.4492

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yit they wot not howe . PASTON,I,460.144.4493

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my lorde chamberleyn sendyth now at thys tyme to Caleys +te
yonge Lorde Sowche and Syr Thomas Hongreffordys dowtre and heyre ,
<P_I,461> and som seye +te yonge Lady Haryngton . PASTON,I,461.144.4494

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thes be iij grett jowellys . PASTON,I,461.144.4495

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Caleys is a mery town ; PASTON,I,461.144.4496

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
they shall dwell there , PASTON,I,461.144.4497

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wot not whyghe . PASTON,I,461.144.4498

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , but I haue ben and ame troblyd wyth myn ouere large and
curteys delyng wyth my seruantys and now wyth ther onkyndnesse .
PASTON,I,461.144.4499

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plattyng , yowre man , wolde thys daye byd me fare-well to to-morow at
Douer , not wythstondyng Thryston , yowre other man , is from me and
John Myryell and W. Woode , whyche promysed yow and Dawbeney , God haue
hys sowle , at Castre +tat iff ye wolde take hym in to be ageyn wyth me
+tat than he wold neuer goo fro me ; PASTON,I,461.144.4500

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther-vppon I haue kepyd hym thys iij yere to pleye Seynt Jorge and
Robynhod and the shryff off Notyngham , PASTON,I,461.144.4501

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and now when I wolde haue good horse he is goon in-to Bernysdale , and
I wyth-owt a kepere . PASTON,I,461.144.4502

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Canterburye , to Caleys warde on Tewesday and happe be ,
vppon Good Frydaye +te xvj daye off Apryll A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiij=o= .
PASTON,I,461.144.4503

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowre J. P. , K. PASTON,I,461.144.4504

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , the most parte off the sowdyorys +tat went ouer wyth Syr Robert
Green haue leeff PASTON,I,461.144.4505

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and be comyn hom , the hyghe-weye full . PASTON,I,461.144.4506

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My cariage was be-hynd me ij howres lengere +tan I lokyd afftre ,
PASTON,I,461.144.4507

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but j-wysse I wende +tat I myght haue etyn my parte on Good Frydaye ,
PASTON,I,461.144.4508

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
all my gownes and pryde had ben goon ; PASTON,I,461.144.4509

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_144:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but all was saffe . PASTON,I,461.144.4510

<Q_PAS_A_1473_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_145> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,463>

{ED:277._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1473,_3_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquiere , be thys delyveryd . </font>
PASTON,I,463.145.4511

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wyrshypffull brother , I comand me to yow , latyng yow weet +tat
thys daye I was in verry purpose to Caleys warde , all redy to haue
goon to +te barge , saff I teryed for a yonge man +tat I thoght to haue
had wyth me thyddre , on that was wyth Rows whyche is in the cowntre` .
PASTON,I,463.145.4512

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And becawse I cowde not geet hym , and +tat I have nomore heer wyth me
butt Pampyng , Edward , and Jak , therffor Pampyng remembryd me that at
Caleys he tolde me +tat he purposed to be wyth the Duchesse off
Norffolk , my lady and yowrys ; PASTON,I,463.145.4513

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Edward is syke PASTON,I,463.145.4514

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and semythe nott abydyng - PASTON,I,463.145.4515

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
he wolde see what shold falle off thys worlde . PASTON,I,463.145.4516

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so I am as he that seythe , ' Com hyddre , John , my men ' .
PASTON,I,463.145.4517

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as happe was yisterday Juddy went a-fore to Caleysward ; wherffor I
am nowe ille purueyd , whyche for owte +tat I knowe yit is lyke to kepe
me heere thys Wytsontyd . Wherffor , iff ye knowe any lykly men and
fayre condycioned and good archerys , sende hem to me , thowe it be
iiij , and I wyll have them and they shall haue iiij $marke {TEXT:mrke}
by yere and my levere' . PASTON,I,463.145.4518

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He maye com to me hyddre to +te Gott , or yit to Caleys , wyth a riall
iff he be wyse , whyche iff nede bee I wolde +tat Berkere toke hym to
com vppe wyth , iff it be suche on as ye tryst . PASTON,I,463.145.4519

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I suppose bothe Pytte and Kothye Plattyng shall goo from me in
hast . PASTON,I,463.145.4520

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wyll neuer cherysshe knaves soo as I have don for ther sakys .
PASTON,I,463.145.4521

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow sende me a newe vestment off whyght damaske fore a
dekyn , whyche is among myn other geer at Norwyche ,
PASTON,I,463.145.4522

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he shall ther-too as ye woot off . PASTON,I,463.145.4523

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wyll make an armyng doblett off it , thow I sholde an other tyme gyff
a longe gown off velwett fore an other vestment ; PASTON,I,463.145.4524

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and send it in all hast to Hoxon to send me . PASTON,I,463.145.4525

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I hopyd to have been verry mery at Caleys thys Whytsontyd ,
PASTON,I,463.145.4526

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and am weell apparayled and apoyntyd saff that thes folkys fayle me soo
; PASTON,I,463.145.4527

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I have mater there to make off ryght excellent .
PASTON,I,463.145.4528

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Som man wolde have hasted hym to Caleys thowe he had hadd no better
erand , PASTON,I,463.145.4529

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som men thynke it wysdom and profyght to be theer now , weell owt
off the weye . PASTON,I,463.145.4530

<P_I,464>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the Bysshop and I , we bee nerre to a poynt than we weere
, so that my part is nowe all the londes in Flegge holly , the maner
off Heylesdon , Tolthorpe , and $tenementys {TEXT:tentys} in Norwyche
and Erlham excepte Fayrechyldys ; PASTON,I,464.145.4531

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but farweell Drayton , PASTON,I,464.145.4532

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
the devyll doytt them ! PASTON,I,464.145.4533

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , large and ferre comynycacion hathe ben bytwyen Syr John Fogge ,
Richard Hawlte , fore ther suster and me , byffore Doctore Wynterborne
and ellys where , so that I am in better hope than {in}_P I was by
Seynt Lawrens that I shall haue a delyueraunce . PASTON,I,464.145.4534

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for tydyngys heer , I trow ye have herde yowre parte howe
+tat +te Erle off Oxenfford londyd at Seynt Osyes in Esexe +te xxviij
daye off Maye , saff he teryed nott longe ; PASTON,I,464.145.4535

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for iff he hadd the Erle off Essexe rod to hym wardys , and the lordys
Denham and Durasse and other more , whyche by lyklyod sholde have
dystrussyd hym . PASTON,I,464.145.4536

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But yit hys comyng savyd Hogan hys hed , PASTON,I,464.145.4537

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hys profesye is the more belevyd , PASTON,I,464.145.4538

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he seyde that this troble sholde begyn in Maye , and +tat the Kyng
sholde northwardys and that +te Scottys sholde make vs werke and hym
batayle . PASTON,I,464.145.4539

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Men loke afftre they wot not what , PASTON,I,464.145.4540

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but men by harneys fast . PASTON,I,464.145.4541

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kyngys menyall men and +te Duke off Clarauncys are many in thys
town ; PASTON,I,464.145.4542

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+te Lord Ryuerse com to-daye , PASTON,I,464.145.4543

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
me {ED:n} sey to purueye in lyke wyse . PASTON,I,464.145.4544

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , how +tat +te Cowntesse off Warwyk is now owt off Beweley
seyntwarye , and Syr James Tyrell conveyth hyre northwarde , men seye
by the Kynges assent , wherto som men seye +tat the Duke of Clarance is
not agreyd . PASTON,I,464.145.4545

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , men seye +tat the Erle off Oxenfford is abowt the jlde off
Tenett hoveryng , PASTON,I,464.145.4546

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
som seye wyth grett companye PASTON,I,464.145.4547

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som seye wyth fewe . PASTON,I,464.145.4548

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , but God kepe yow . PASTON,I,464.145.4549

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London the iij daye off June A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiij=o= .
PASTON,I,464.145.4550

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:29
LETTER:PASTON_145:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John P. , K. PASTON,I,464.145.4551

<Q_PAS_A_1473_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_146> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,464>

{ED:278._TO_EDMOND_PASTON_II_1473,_5_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
A Edmond Paston , esquyere , a Caleys soyt donne` - A=o= xiij=o= .
PASTON,I,464.146.4552

<P_I,465>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Brothere Edmond , I grete yow weell , letyng yow weete +tat abowt thys
daye vij nyght I sende yow a letter by Nycholas Bardeslee , a sowdyore
whyche is wont to be at borde {ED:at} Perauntys , and also an
hoseclothe off blak fore yow . PASTON,I,465.146.4553

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wende +tat ye sholde haue hadde itt wyth-in ij dayes ,
PASTON,I,465.146.4554

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I am afferde +tat he deseyued me . PASTON,I,465.146.4555

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I lete yow weet +tat Plattyng is comen hyddre ,
PASTON,I,465.146.4556

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seythe +tat ye gaffe hym leve to fetche hys geere and Pittys ,
PASTON,I,465.146.4557

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and that is hys erande hyddre and noon othere ; PASTON,I,465.146.4558

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nere he thowt neuer to goo fro me , PASTON,I,465.146.4559

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nere he wyll nott goo fro me , as he seythe . Wherffor I praye yow
sende me worde off hys condycions , and whyghe ye thynke +tat he sholde
neuer do me worshypp . PASTON,I,465.146.4560

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He seythe also +tat he and Pytte weer at +te takyng off the Esterlyngys
, and that he was in the Pakkere and Pytte in the Crystoffre .
PASTON,I,465.146.4561

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me worde howe bothe he and Pitte quytte them , by the
report off som jndyfferent trewe man +tat was there .
PASTON,I,465.146.4562

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff they quytte them weell I wolde love them the better , wherffore the
next daye afftre the syte off thys letter I praye yow wryght ageyn ,
and sende it by the next passage . PASTON,I,465.146.4563

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I sende a lytell praty boxe herwith whyche I wolde +tat Juddy
sholde delyuer to +te woman +tat he wotyth off , and praye hyre to take
it to +te man +tat she wotyth off ; +tat is to seye as moche as ye know
all well j-now , bot ye maye nott make yow wyse in no wyse .
PASTON,I,465.146.4564

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow sende me worde as ye were wont to do off heere
wellffare , and whether I weere owt and other jnne , ore nott ; and
whether she shall forsake Caleys as sone as ye sende me worde off , or
nott . PASTON,I,465.146.4565

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
By God , I wolde be wyth yow as fayne as yowre-selff ,
PASTON,I,465.146.4566

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and shall be in hast , wyth Goddys grace . PASTON,I,465.146.4567

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for my brother John , I hope wyth-in thys monyth to see hym
in Caleys , PASTON,I,465.146.4568

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by lyklyhod to-morowe or ellys the nexte daye he takyth shyppe at
Yarmothe PASTON,I,465.146.4569

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and goothe to Seynt James warde , PASTON,I,465.146.4570

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hathe wretyn to me +tat he wyll come homwarde by Caleys .
PASTON,I,465.146.4571

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I suppose +tat James Songer shall com wyth me to Caleys +te
rather for yowre sake . PASTON,I,465.146.4572

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , Mestresse Elysabett fareth well , PASTON,I,465.146.4573

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but as yit Songer knoweth nott so parffytly all +tat ye wolde weet +tat
he woll nott wryght to yow off thees ij dayes tyll he knowe moore .
PASTON,I,465.146.4574

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But iff she hadde ben bolde , and durst have abydyn styll at hyre gate
and spoken wyth me , so God helpe me she had hadd thys same +tat I
sende nowe where ye woot off , whyche ye shall see woryn heer afftre .
PASTON,I,465.146.4575

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Itt is a praty ryban wyth praty aglettys and goodlye .
PASTON,I,465.146.4576

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Make yow nott wyse to Juddy , nowther not +tat ye wolde weet any thynge
, PASTON,I,465.146.4577

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I maye sey to yowe at hys comyng ovre he browt goodly geere
resonablye . PASTON,I,465.146.4578

<P_I,466>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for my byll +tat is gylt , I wolde it weer taken heed too .
PASTON,I,466.146.4579

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ther is on in the town +tat can glaser weell j-nowe , as I herde sey .
PASTON,I,466.146.4580

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also ther is on comythe euery markett daye fro Seynt Omerys to Caleys ,
PASTON,I,466.146.4581

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he bryngethe dagerys and fecchyth ; PASTON,I,466.146.4582

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
also he maye haue it wyth hym and brynge it ageyn the next markett daye
for xij d. or xvj at +te most ; PASTON,I,466.146.4583

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ellys late it be weell oylyd and kepte tyll I come .
PASTON,I,466.146.4584

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more . PASTON,I,466.146.4585

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:31
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_146:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te v daye off Jull A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiij=o= .
PASTON,I,466.146.4586

<Q_PAS_A_1473_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_147> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,466>

{ED:279._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1473,_30_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wyrshypful Moodre , Margret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,466.147.4587

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wyrshypffull and my ryght tendre modre , I recomaunde me to yow ,
besechyng yow off yowre dayly blessyng . PASTON,I,466.147.4588

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weet +tat I herde nott from yow off longe tyme ,
whyche cawsythe me to be ryght hevye ; PASTON,I,466.147.4589

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nere at +te last tyme +tat I sende to yow in wryghtyng I hadde from
yowre-selffe noo wryghtyng ner answere ageyn saff by Playtere on tym
and by my brother an other tyme , whyche answer off Playtere was
noo-thyng acordyng but contraryaunt to other wryghtyng more comfortable
+tat he had sent me nott longe byffore thatt , on yowre behalve as he
wrotte , whyche God amende . PASTON,I,466.147.4590

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse to my more heuynesse I herde seye +tat ye sholde have
been passhyng hevy for my sake , and in cheffe fore that I was lyke to
late goo the maner off Sporle , wherin I was pytte in comffort to have
had relyffe by the meanes off yow ; PASTON,I,466.147.4591

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and syns it was tolde me +tat iff I leete it goo +tat ye wolde therfore
dysavauntage me more londe in tyme to come off syche as by poscybylyte`
myght com to mee off yowrys . Vppon whyche corage my grauntdame and myn
oncle to-gedre gaffe me an answere on hyr part moche lyke ,
PASTON,I,466.147.4592

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so my fadre , God have hys sowle , leffte me scant xl li. londe in
rest , PASTON,I,466.147.4593

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye leffe me as pleasythe yow , and my grauntdame at hyre plesure .
PASTON,I,466.147.4594

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thus maye I have lytell hope off the worlde . PASTON,I,466.147.4595

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neverthelesse I beseche yow to be my good moodre , how so euer ye doo
wyth yowre londe , PASTON,I,466.147.4596

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I feell weell +tat iff I have on losse I am lyke therffor to have
three . PASTON,I,466.147.4597

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But <P_I,467> as for Sporle , it shall nott goo iff I maye nere by my
wyll , PASTON,I,467.147.4598

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff ther hadde ben performed me as largelye as was promysed me by
Playtere I were sewre it sholde nott have goon nor yit sholde nat goo .
PASTON,I,467.147.4599

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse , iff ye and all my frendys and yowrys in Norffolk myght
haue lende me so moche monye , and to haue takyn it vppe in v yere , I
suppose they sholde par auentur have ben payed ageyn in a yere ore ij
iff I had solde any woode . PASTON,I,467.147.4600

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse , plese yow to weet +tat I have provyd my fadres wyll and
testement , wherin I maye nowt dele on-to +te tyme that all the
executorys have reffused , wherffore ther most be sende sitacions to
yow and alle other that weer namyd my fadris executorys , wherin iff ye
lyst not to take admynystracion , as I woot well ye woll nott off olde
, ye most than make a proctore that must on yowre behalve byffor my
lorde off Canterbury , wyth a sufficiant warant and autoryte` , vndre a
notarys syngne ther in the corte reffuse to take admynestracion ;
PASTON,I,467.147.4601

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys jnstrument and aultoryte` I beseche yow maye be redy and at
London by the fyrst daye off +te terme . PASTON,I,467.147.4602

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff ye be not aqueyntyd wyth non suche at London , iff it please
yowe to take and avowe for yowre proctore and sende hym auctoryte` , on
Master John Halsnothe , whyche was a clerke off Master Robert Centys
and was so trusty to my fadre , God have hys sowle , and to sende me a
letter off yowre wylle ther-in , I vndretake +tat he shall nott do but
as ye sende me worde . PASTON,I,467.147.4603

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plese it yow to gyff credence to Juddy her-in . PASTON,I,467.147.4604

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more to yow at thys tyme , but Jeshu have yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,467.147.4605

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn att Caleys the last daye saff on off Julle .
PASTON,I,467.147.4606

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:31
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_147:M4:1473:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowre $sone J. P. , K. PASTON,I,467.147.4607

<Q_PAS_A_1474_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_148> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,474>

{ED:284._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1474,_20_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> Mestresse Margrett Paston , at Norwyche . </font>
PASTON,I,474.148.4608

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght honorable and most tendre good moodre , I recomand me to yowe ,
besechyng yow to haue , as my tryst is +tat I have , yowre dayly
blessyng ; PASTON,I,474.148.4609

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thanke yow off yowre good moderhood , kyndenesse , cheere , charge
, and coste whyche I had and pvtte yow to att my last beyng wyth yow ,
$whyche {TEXT:whche} God gyffe me grace her-afftre to deserve .
PASTON,I,474.148.4610

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weet +tat I thynke longe +tat I heere nott from yow ,
ore from Pekok yowre seruaunt , fore the knowlege howe he hathe doon in
+te sale off my ferme barlye , nere what is made there-off . Wherffore
I beseche yow , iff it be not answeryd by that tyme +tat thys bylle
comythe to yowe , to hast hym and <P_I,475> itt hyddrewardys ,
PASTON,I,475.148.4611

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore iff +tat had nott taryed me I deme I had ben at Caleys by thys
daye . PASTON,I,475.148.4612

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For it is soo , as men seye , +tat +te Frense Kynge wyth a gret hoste
is at Amyas , but iij=xx= myle from Caleys , PASTON,I,475.148.4613

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff he ore hys roode byffore Caleys and I nott theere , I wolde be
sorye . PASTON,I,475.148.4614

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , men seye +tat the Erle off Oxenfford hathe ben constreynyd to
sewe fore hys pardon only off hys lyffe , and hys body , goodes ,
londes , wyth all +te remenaunt at +te Kynges wyll , and soo sholde in
all haste nowe com in to +te Kyng . PASTON,I,475.148.4615

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And som men seye +tat he is goon owt off +te Mownte , men wot not to
what plase , and yit leffte a greet garnyson theere weell fornysshyd in
vytayll and all other thyng . PASTON,I,475.148.4616

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as fore the hauyng ageyn off Castre , I trust to have good
tydyngys theroff hastelye . PASTON,I,475.148.4617

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my brother John farethe weell , PASTON,I,475.148.4618

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hathe doon ryght delygentlye in my cosyn Elisabeth Berneys materys
, wheroff hastely I trust he shall sende hyre tydyngys +tat schall
please hyre ; PASTON,I,475.148.4619

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as to-morow he purposyth to take hys jurneye to Walys warde to +te
Lord Ryverse . PASTON,I,475.148.4620

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomore at thys tyme , but Jeswe haue yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,475.148.4621

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London the xx daye off Feuerere A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiij=o= .
PASTON,I,475.148.4622

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_148:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowre sone J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,475.148.4623

<Q_PAS_A_1474_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_149> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,475>

{ED:285._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1474,_PROBABLY_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margrett Paston at Norwyche , er to J. Paston in
hyre absence . </font> PASTON,I,475.149.4624

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wyrshypfull and my moste kynd and tendre moodre , I recomaund me
to yow , thankyng yow off the grete cost and off the greet chere +tat
ye dyd to me and myn at my last beyng wyth yowe ; whyche cheere also
hathe made me perffyghtly hooll , I thanke God and yow , in so moche
+tat where as I feeryd me +tat for weykenesse , and so green recuveryd
off my syknesse , +tat I scholde have apeyryd by the weye , but , God
thanke yow , I toke soo my crommys whyls I was wyth yow +tat I felyd
my-sylffe by the weye that God and ye had made me stronger than I wenyd
+tat I had ben , jn so moche +tat I feell my-selffe euery daye hollere
than othere . PASTON,I,475.149.4625

<P_I,476>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It was soo that I mett wyth myn onkle William by the weye ,
PASTON,I,476.149.4626

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there in the felde I payed hym the iiij li. whyche I had borowyd
off hym , PASTON,I,476.149.4627

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he was passyng jnquisytyff howe +tat I was purueyd fore
recompensyng off Towneshend . PASTON,I,476.149.4628

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I tolde hym I hopyd weell . PASTON,I,476.149.4629

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He tolde me +tat he vndrestood +tat I had the c li. off the Bysshopys
executorys , PASTON,I,476.149.4630

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he had herd seye +tat I had also borowyd an other c li. off a
marchaunt , PASTON,I,476.149.4631

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I lakyd but an c marke . PASTON,I,476.149.4632

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme he herde thys off T. Lovell , PASTON,I,476.149.4633

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I tolde hym +tat I was in hope to fynde suche a freende +tat wolde
lende me c li . PASTON,I,476.149.4634

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He axed me who was that ; PASTON,I,476.149.4635

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I answeryd hym an olde marchaunt , a freende off myn ;
PASTON,I,476.149.4636

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but myn oncle thowte +tat sholde be by weye off chevyshanse and to myn
horte , wherffore I was pleyne to hym and tolde hym that ye were
sewerte` therffore and purueyed it off suche as wolde doo for yowe .
PASTON,I,476.149.4637

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for the forte c mark , he seyde to me +tat as for that he wolde
, rather than joparte` sholde be , purvey it by weye off chevyshaunce
at London , jn so meche +tat ere he come fro London he had for my sake
leyde v c markys worthe off plate wyth Hewghe Fenne .
PASTON,I,476.149.4638

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The place at Warwykys Inne is large PASTON,I,476.149.4639

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and my grawntdame is agyd ; PASTON,I,476.149.4640

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
it had ben jopartous to leve moche plate wyth hyre , thoghe halffe were
hyre owne . PASTON,I,476.149.4641

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But iff I maye doo other wyse I purpose nott to chevyshe any mony by
hys meane . PASTON,I,476.149.4642

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I have delyueryd yowre botell to Courbye +te caryere thys same
daye , PASTON,I,476.149.4643

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he promysed me to be wyth yow on Mondaye nyghte ore ellys on
Towesday tymely . PASTON,I,476.149.4644

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He hathe also xl d. to paye for the thryd hyryd horse ,
PASTON,I,476.149.4645

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he bryngythe the iij horse wyth hym PASTON,I,476.149.4646

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is contente for hys labore and for the mete largely .
PASTON,I,476.149.4647

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
They be delyueryd hym in as good and rather better plyght than whan I
had them forthe , and nott gallyd nore hurte . PASTON,I,476.149.4648

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He $hathe {TEXT:hate} also ij sadelys , on off my brotherys and an
other hyred , as ye woot off . PASTON,I,476.149.4649

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , he hathe a peyre botys off Edmond Reedys +te shomakere , whyche
Saundre borowyd off hym . PASTON,I,476.149.4650

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yowe that William Mylsent ore Symme maye se +tat euery man
have hys owne . PASTON,I,476.149.4651

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as fore my brother Edmond , blyssyd be God he is weell amendyd .
PASTON,I,476.149.4652

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as fore Hankyn owre dogge , I am a-ferde neuer to see hym but
iff yowre good helpe bee . PASTON,I,476.149.4653

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the bookys +tat weer Syr James , iff it lyke yow +tat I
maye haue them I ame not able to by them ; PASTON,I,476.149.4654

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but som-what wolde I gyffe , PASTON,I,476.149.4655

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the remenaunt , wyth a goode devowte herte by my trowthe I wyll
prey for hys sowle . Wherffor iff it lyke yow by the next massenger ore
karyere to sende hem , in a daye I shall have them dressyd heer ;
PASTON,I,476.149.4656

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff any off them be claymyd here-afftre in feythe I wyll restoore
it . PASTON,I,476.149.4657

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Saterdaye . PASTON,I,476.149.4658

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_149:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,476.149.4659

<Q_PAS_A_1474_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_150> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,477>

{ED:286._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1474,_20_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Mestresse Margrete Paston , ore to Roose dwellyng byffore
hyre gate at Norwyche . </font> PASTON,I,477.150.4660

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Afftre dew recomendacion , my most tendre and kynde moodre , I beseche
yow off yowre dayly blessyng . PASTON,I,477.150.4661

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it yow to weete +tat I reseyvyd a lettre that come from yowe ,
wretyn +te xxvj daye off Octobre , non erst but on Wednysday last past
; wherby I conceyvyd +tat at +te wryghtyng off +tat letter ye weere
nott serteyn off the delyng betwyn Towneshende and me .
PASTON,I,477.150.4662

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It was so +tat , God thanke yow , I receyvyd +te xx li. broght by Syme
and also the mony browght by my brothere , wyth whyche mony , and wyth
moore +tat I had my-selff , I redemyd the maner off Sporle and payed
Towneshend bothe +te cccc $marke {TEXT:mrke} ther-fore and also x li.
+tat I owte hym besyde ; and have off hym an aqwytaunce off all
bargaynes and off all other dettys . PASTON,I,477.150.4663

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Neuerthelesse , I assayed hym iff he wolde , iff nede hadde ben , gyvyn
me a xij monyth lenger respyght , whyche he grauntyd to do .
PASTON,I,477.150.4664

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But in conclusyon I can nott entrete hym but +tat he woll have the
vttremest off hys bargayn , and thys xx li. payeable at Candelmesse and
Esterne . PASTON,I,477.150.4665

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I kan entrete hym noon other wyse as yit ; wherfore I thynke iff I had
passyd my daye it had ben harde to have trustyd to hys cortesye , jn so
moche I fynde hym also ryght loose in the tonge . PASTON,I,477.150.4666

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For Bekham , he spekyth no-thyng comfortably ther-in ;
PASTON,I,477.150.4667

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
what he wyll doo can I nott seye . PASTON,I,477.150.4668

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for Castre , it nedyth nott to spore nore prykke me to doo
owghte ther-in . PASTON,I,477.150.4669

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doo +tat I can wyth goode wyll , PASTON,I,477.150.4670

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and somwhat I hope to doo hastely +ter-in +tat shall doo goode .
PASTON,I,477.150.4671

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the bokes +tat weere Syre James , God haue hys sowle ,
whyche it lykethe yow +tat I shall have them , I beseche yow +tat I
maye have them hyddre by the next massenger ; PASTON,I,477.150.4672

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and iff I be goon , yit that they be delyueryd to myn ostesse at +te
George at Powlys Wharff , whyche wolle kepe them saffe , and +tat it
lyke yow to wryght to me whatt my peyne ore payment shall be for them .
PASTON,I,477.150.4673

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , it lyked yow to weet off myn heelle . PASTON,I,477.150.4674

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thanke God nowe +tat I am nott greetly syke nere soore but in myn
heele , wherin alle men know nott whatt peyne I feele .
PASTON,I,477.150.4675

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wher ye advysed me to hast me owt off thys towne , I wolde full
fayne be hense . PASTON,I,477.150.4676

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spende dayly more than I sholde doo iff I were hense ,
PASTON,I,477.150.4677

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am nott well porveyed . PASTON,I,477.150.4678

<P_I,478>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , blessyd be Good my grauntdam is amendyd by suche tyme as myn
oncle W. come hyddre , PASTON,I,478.150.4679

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my yongest cosyn Margret , hys doghtre , is ded and beryed er he
come hom . PASTON,I,478.150.4680

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am as moche a-ferde off thys londe +tat is in hys hande as I was off
that +tat was jn Towneshendys hande . PASTON,I,478.150.4681

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope to wryght yow moore serteynte`s wyth-in iiij ore v dayes .
PASTON,I,478.150.4682

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nomore , &c . PASTON,I,478.150.4683

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn +te xx daye off Novembre A=o= E. iiij xiiij=o= .
PASTON,I,478.150.4684

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_150:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowre sone J. Paston . PASTON,I,478.150.4685

<Q_PAS_A_1474_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_151> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,480>

{ED:288._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1474,_11_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquiere . </font> PASTON,I,480.151.4686

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother , I recomaunde me to yow , letyng yow weete +tat I have , lyke
as I promysed yowe , I have doon my devoyre to knowe my Lady Walgraues
stomake , whyche , as God helpe me and to be pleyn to yowe , I fynde in
hyre no mater nere cawse +tat I myght take comfort off .
PASTON,I,480.151.4687

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche wyll in no wyse receyve nere kepe yowre rynge wyth hyre ,
PASTON,I,480.151.4688

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yit I tolde hyre +tat she scholde not be any-thynge bownde therby
but +tat I knew by yowre herte off olde +tat I wyst weell ye wolde be
glad to forbere the levest thyng +tat ye had in the world whyche myght
be dayly in here presence +tat sholde cawse hyre onys on a daye to
remembre yow ; PASTON,I,480.151.4689

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but itt wolde not be . PASTON,I,480.151.4690

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She wolde nott therby , as she seyde , putte yow nere kepe yow in any
comffort ther-by , PASTON,I,480.151.4691

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and more-ovyre she preyed me +tat I sholde neuer take labore moore
heere-in PASTON,I,480.151.4692

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore she wolde holde hyre to suche answere as she hadd gevyn yow
to-foore ; wherwyth she thowght bothe ye and I wolde have holde vs
contente had nott been the wordys off hyre suster Geneffyeff .
PASTON,I,480.151.4693

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When I vndrestoode all thys , and that ouer nyght she bad hyre +tat
weent bytwyen hyre and me byd me brynge wyth me hyre muskeball whyche ,
&c. , than I aftre all thys axid iff she weere dyspleasyd wyth me for
it , PASTON,I,480.151.4694

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she seyde naye . PASTON,I,480.151.4695

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Than I tolde hyre that I had nott sent it yowe fore synne off my sowle
, PASTON,I,480.151.4696

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so I tolde hyre all how I had wretyn to yow why that I wold nott
sende it yow by-cawse I wyst weell ye sholde have slepyd the werse .
PASTON,I,480.151.4697

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But nowe I tolde hyre , as God helpe me , +tat I wolde sende it yow ,
and gyffe yow myn advyse nott to hope ouyre moche on hyre whyche is
ovyre harde an hertyd-7 lady for a yonge man to tryst on-to , whyche I
thowght +tat for all my wordys ye cowde nott nere wolde nott do fore
all myn advyce . PASTON,I,480.151.4698

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yitt ageynwardys , she is nott dyspleasyd nor forbad me nott but that
ye sholde have the kepyng off hyre mvskball . Wherffor do ye wyth itt
as ye lyke . PASTON,I,480.151.4699

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wolde it hadd doon weell . PASTON,I,480.151.4700

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By Good , I spake fore yow soo that in feythe I trowe I kowde nott seye
so weell ageyn ; wherffor I sende yow herwyth yowre rynge and the
onhappy muskeball also . PASTON,I,480.151.4701

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Make ye mater off it herafftre as ye kan . PASTON,I,480.151.4702

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am nott happy to wow , <P_I,481> nowther-1 for my-selff nere noon
othere . PASTON,I,481.151.4703

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I tolde hyre all +te process off the Lorde Howarde and off yowre
grewndys as I kowde ; PASTON,I,481.151.4704

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all helpys notte . PASTON,I,481.151.4705

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I praye yow late my brothere Edmonde vndrestonde +tat as for +te
chevysshaunce +tat myn oncle W. spake off , as God helpe me itt canne
nott be , PASTON,I,481.151.4706

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I $can $not {TEXT:cannott} chevyshe for my-selffe .
PASTON,I,481.151.4707

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I feer +tat I am lyke to be deseyuyd by hym ; PASTON,I,481.151.4708

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
by God I had lever than c noblys +tat I weer qwyte off hym .
PASTON,I,481.151.4709

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can se noon other as yit , but that I ame nott lyke to goo to Caleys
byffore Crestmesse but iff I wolde jopart it at hys curtesye .
PASTON,I,481.151.4710

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am in an agonye wyth hym +tat vexithe all my spyrytys .
PASTON,I,481.151.4711

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I heer no woorde from my brother E. ner fro R. Lynsted howe they have
sped wyth Towneshende . PASTON,I,481.151.4712

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Iff ther be any answere sent to myn oncle W. he makyth me nott prevye
ther-to , whe {ED:r} for I have to grett an hurte jff I wote nott in
all haste howe +tat Lynsted hathe doon wyth Towneshend and also att
Snaylwell ; wherffor in hast sende worde to me or to myn ostesse at +te
George . PASTON,I,481.151.4713

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I here no worde off my vessell nere off my bokys .
PASTON,I,481.151.4714

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I mervayll . PASTON,I,481.151.4715

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more . PASTON,I,481.151.4716

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the xj daye off Decembre A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiiij=o= .
PASTON,I,481.151.4717

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:30
LETTER:PASTON_151:M4:1474:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,481.151.4718

<Q_PAS_A_1475_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_152> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,484>

{ED:291._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1475,_22_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston at Norwyche be thys delyueryd .
</font> PASTON,I,484.152.4719

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat I receyuyd a letter from yow wretyn +te
Saterdaye next byffore Candelmesse , for answere wheroff lyke it yow to
weete +tat , as for the bokys +tat weer Syr James , God haue hys sowle
, I thynke best that they be styll wyth yow tyll +tat I speke wyth yow
my-selff . PASTON,I,484.152.4720

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My mynde is now nott most vppon bokys . PASTON,I,484.152.4721

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for xx li. +tat ye sey +tat yowre plate lythe fore , it is so
+tat I fownde my oncle William no sewerte` therffore .
PASTON,I,484.152.4722

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As Playtere and my brother John bothe cowde enfforme yowe , it was
neuer desyryd off me , nere the tolde me nott +tat any suche pledge
laye for it , but +tat ye hadd dyschargyd me off xx li. and chevysshyd
it , and +tat ye sholde repaye it in hast ; wherin I woll do as ye woll
, and as it pleasyth yow to sende me wetyng . PASTON,I,484.152.4723

<P_I,485>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I ame sory +tat ye be no bettre payd off +te xx li. +tat I had
off yowe , whyche ye sholde haue receyuyd ageyn off my londys in Flegge
; PASTON,I,485.152.4724

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
iff the markett be nott goode yit I hope jt shall be better .
PASTON,I,485.152.4725

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuer the lesse my wyll is that ye sholde have yowre holl xx li. ageyn
and nott lose j d. ; wherffor iff it be soo +tat ye be mysse seruyd
there , I beseche yowe off pacyence tyll the begynnyng off the next
yeere , PASTON,I,485.152.4726

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff aught be behynd ye shall receyue vppe the remenaunt then ,
PASTON,I,485.152.4727

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for as God helpe me I wolde be sory +tat ye lost moore for me .
PASTON,I,485.152.4728

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I have pytte yow to cost , charge , and losse j-nowge ,
PASTON,I,485.152.4729

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God thanke yowe off it , thoughe ye lose no more ; wherffor jff Sporle
woode sprynge any syluer ore golde it is my wyll +tat fyrst off alle ye
be yowre owne payere off all +tat is be-hynde , and next thatt to paye
myn oncle William vij=xx= vj li. xiij s. iiij d. , and besyd that xvj
li. lost vppon the chevysshaunce offe iiij=xx= li. ;
PASTON,I,485.152.4730

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I owe viij=xx= ij li. xiij s. iiij d. Wherfor I beseche yow to
make hast in repayment heroff as fast as it woll growe , as my trost is
in yowe . PASTON,I,485.152.4731

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , wher it pleasyd yow to weete off myn heele and a-mendyng , I
thanke Godde I ame in goode case , and as goode $as full hooll bothe
off the fevre agwe , off myn je , myn legge , and myn heele , saff +tat
I ame tendre off all theese and , were nott goode rewle , full like to
feell off iche off them ryght soone . PASTON,I,485.152.4732

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse God thanke yow off yowre large profre , wheroff I wolde
be ryght gladde iff I myght , fore trobles and other labore that I have
takyn on me nowe in-to Fraunce warde . PASTON,I,485.152.4733

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For the goode spede off me and +tat jorneye I beseche yow off yowre
preyerys and remembrance ; PASTON,I,485.152.4734

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thatt jorney wyth Goddys grace onys doon , I purpose verrely wyth
Goddys grace therafftre to daunce atendaunce most abowt yowre plesure
and ease . PASTON,I,485.152.4735

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And wyth Goddys grace soone vppon Esterne , ere euyre I goo forthe , I
hope to se yow and fecche yowre blessyng . PASTON,I,485.152.4736

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore at thys tyme , but Jesus have yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,485.152.4737

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Caleys the xxij daye off Feuerere A=o= E. iiij=ti= xiiij=o= .
PASTON,I,485.152.4738

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_152:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowre sone John Paston , K. PASTON,I,485.152.4739

<Q_PAS_A_1475_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_153> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,485>

{ED:292._TO_EDMOND_PASTON_II_1475,_13_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston ore to hys brother Edmond Paston at +te George at
Powles Wharff . </font> PASTON,I,485.153.4740

<P_I,486>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Brother Edmonde , it is soo +tat I heer telle +tat ye be in hope to
come hyddre and to be in suche wagys as {in}_P ye schall can lyve lyke
a jentylman , wheroff I wolde be gladde . Wherffor for yowre better
speede I lete yow weete +tat Heugh Beamond is deed , wherffor I wolde
ye had hys roome , nowe ore neuer iff ye can brynge it a-bowt .
PASTON,I,486.153.4741

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ellys , iff ye dyspose yowe to abyde in Inglonde , syns it is so +tat
the Bysshop of Lynkolne is chauncelere , hys seruyse is the meter for
yow - PASTON,I,486.153.4742

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
he is next neyghbore to Norffolk off any astate . PASTON,I,486.153.4743

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God sende yow som good warde off hys . PASTON,I,486.153.4744

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow iff yowre leyser be ther-afftre to remembre Towneshende
+tat he wyth the advyse and assystence off my Master off +te Rollys
have on daye off Marche wyth +te slawe Bysshope off Wynchester , +tat
he maye kepe me hys promyse ; +tat is to seye to entrete +te Duke and
Duchesse off Norffolk for Caster . PASTON,I,486.153.4745

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He promysed to doo it , and to ley owt an c li. for +te same .
PASTON,I,486.153.4746

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow sende me som tydyngys wyth-in v dayes afftre +tat ye
see thys bylle . PASTON,I,486.153.4747

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Caleys +te xiij daye off June . PASTON,I,486.153.4748

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_153:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston K. PASTON,I,486.153.4749

<Q_PAS_A_1475_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_154> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,486>

{ED:293._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1475,_11_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston , at Norwyche . </font>
PASTON,I,486.154.4750

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght reuerend and my most tendre and kyynde moodre , I recomaunde me
to yow . PASTON,I,486.154.4751

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat , blessyd be God , thys wyage off the
Kyngys is fynysshyd for thys tyme , PASTON,I,486.154.4752

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and alle the Kyngys ost is comen to Caleys as on Mondaye last past ,
+tat is to seye +te iiij daye off Septembre , PASTON,I,486.154.4753

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and at thys daye many off hys host be passyd +te see in-to Inglond
ageyn , and in especiall my lorde off Norffolk and my bretheryn .
PASTON,I,486.154.4754

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I was jn goode hope to have hadde Caster ageyn .
PASTON,I,486.154.4755

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Te Kynge spake to my lorde off Norffolk for it PASTON,I,486.154.4756

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it was full lyke to have comyn , PASTON,I,486.154.4757

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but in conclusyon it is delayed tyll +tis next terme , by whyche tyme
the Kynge <P_I,487> $hathe comaundyd hym to take advyce off hys
councell and to be sywere +tat hys tytle be goode ,
PASTON,I,487.154.4758

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
ore ellys +te kyng hathe asserteynyd hym +tat for any favore he most do
me ryght and justyce , &c . PASTON,I,487.154.4759

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff Caster hadde comen , by my feythe I had comyn streyhte home .
PASTON,I,487.154.4760

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Notwytstondyng , iff I may do yow servyce or ease , as ye and I have
comonyd heere-to-foore , afftre as I heere from yow , as God helpe me ,
I purpose to leeffe alle heere and come home to yow and be yowre
hosbonde and balyff ; wher-in I spake to my brothere John to telle yow
myn advyce . PASTON,I,487.154.4761

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I also mysselyke somwhat the heyre heer , PASTON,I,487.154.4762

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my $trowthe {TEXT:troute} I was in goode heele whan I come
hyddre , and all hooll , PASTON,I,487.154.4763

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and to my wetyng I hadde neuer a better stomake in my lyffe ;
PASTON,I,487.154.4764

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and now wyth-in viij dayes I am crasyd ageyn . PASTON,I,487.154.4765

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I suppose +tat I most be at London at Mychelmesse and ther to purveye
for payment for myn oncle William , by whyche tyme I praye yow +tat I
maye heer from yow , and off yowr advyce and helpe iff any thynge be
growyn off Sporle woode . PASTON,I,487.154.4766

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For had nott yit that danger have been , I mygh {ED:t} yit have ben at
home wyth yow at thys daye or wyth-in vij dayes afftre .
PASTON,I,487.154.4767

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , but I beseche Jesus have yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,487.154.4768

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Caleys the xj daye off Septembre . PASTON,I,487.154.4769

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_154:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,487.154.4770

<Q_PAS_A_1476_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_155> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,490>

{ED:296._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1476,_27_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquiere , at Norwyche be thys delyueryd .
</font> PASTON,I,490.155.4771

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I recomaunde me to yow , letyng yow weete +tat I was jnfformyd by
Richard Radle` +tat on Scarlett , +tat was vndrescheryff to Hastyngys ,
wolde sywe to me on yowre behalff fore thatt ye weere dyspleasyd wyth a
returne off Nichyll vppon yow in +te seyde Hastyngys tyme ; wherffor
Richard Radle` thoghte +tat the seyde Scarlett wolde be gladde to gyff
yow a noble or a riall for a sadell to amendys , so +tat ye wolde sease
and stoppe the bylle whyche ye entende to putt in to +te corte ageyn
hys master Hastyngys . Wherffor the seyde Scarlett com to me and prayed
me to helpe in the same , PASTON,I,490.155.4772

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I have don my devoyre to feele off hym the most +tat he can
fynde in hys stomake to departe wyth to please yow ;
PASTON,I,490.155.4773

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and in conclusyon I trowe he shall gyff yow a doblett clothe off sylke
, price xx s. ore +ter-abowte , whyche vppon suche answeere as I heer
from yowe I deme +tat Bysshop the atornye shall , iff I conclude wyth
hym on yowre behalve , paye in mony or otherwyse to whom +tat ye woll
assyngne heere . PASTON,I,490.155.4774

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shall by the meanys off <P_I,491> Raddele` weete at whoys sywte it
was takyn owte . PASTON,I,491.155.4775

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme it som-thynge doon by craffte by the meanys off them +tat have
entresse in yowre lond to +t'entent to noyse itt therys , or to make
yow past shame off the sellyng ther-off . PASTON,I,491.155.4776

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I have receyvyd a letter from yowe , wretyn on Tywesdaye last .
PASTON,I,491.155.4777

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , wher +tat som towardys my lady off Norffolk noyse +tat I dyd
onkyndely to sende so hastely to Caster as I dyd , +ter is no dyscrete
person +tat so thynkyth ; PASTON,I,491.155.4778

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore iff my lorde hade ben as kynde to me as he myght have ben , and
acordyng to suche hert and seruyce as my grauntffadre , my fadre ,
yowre-selff , and I have owght and doon to my lordys off Norffolk +tat
ded ben , and yitt iff I hadde weddyd hys dowghtre , yitt most I have
doon as I dydde . PASTON,I,491.155.4779

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And moore-ovyre , iff I had hadde any demyng off my lordys dethe iiij
howrys ore he dyed , I most nedys , but iff I wolde be knowyn a foolle
, have entryd it the howre byffore hys dyscesse . PASTON,I,491.155.4780

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But in effecte theygh that in +tat matere have alweye ment onkyndely to
me , they feyne +tat rumore ageyn me ; PASTON,I,491.155.4781

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but there is noon thatt ment truly to hym +tat dede is +tat wolde be
sory +tat I hadde itt , and in especiall suche as love hys sowle .
PASTON,I,491.155.4782

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , wher it is demyd +tat my lady wolde herafftre be the rather myn
hevy lady for +tat delyng , I thynke +tat she is to resonable so to be
, PASTON,I,491.155.4783

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore I dyd it nott onwyst to hyre cowncell . PASTON,I,491.155.4784

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Ter was no man thoght +tat I sholde doo otherwysse ,
PASTON,I,491.155.4785

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
an as to seye +tat I myght have hadde my ladyes advyce ore lyve , I
myght have teryed yitt or I cowde have speken wyth hyre , ore yitt have
hadde any body to have mevyd hyre on my be-halve .
PASTON,I,491.155.4786

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As ye wote , I dydde what I cowde . PASTON,I,491.155.4787

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Moreouyre I taried by the advyce off Syr Robert Wyngffelde iij dayes
+ter for +tat he putte me in comffort +tat +te Lorde Howard and hys
brother Syr John sholde have comyn to Norwyche , att whoys comyng he
dowtyd nott but +tat I sholde have a goode dyreccion takyn for me in
thatt mater . PASTON,I,491.155.4788

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
They leyhe to me onkyndenesse for ouyrkyndenesse .
PASTON,I,491.155.4789

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for my mater heere , itt was thys daye beffoore alle the
lordes off the cowncelle , PASTON,I,491.155.4790

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and amonge them ale it was nott thowght +tat in my sendyng off Whetley
thyddre in-mediatly afftre the dyscese off +te Duke +tat I dalte
onkyndly ore onsyttyngly , but +tat I was moore onresonably dalte wyth
. Wherffor , late men deme whatt they wylle , PASTON,I,491.155.4791

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
grettest clerkys are nott alweye wysest men ; PASTON,I,491.155.4792

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I hope hastely to have on weye in it ore othere .
PASTON,I,491.155.4793

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I wende to have fownde a gowne off myn heere ,
PASTON,I,491.155.4794

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but it come home the same daye +tat I come owte , browght by Herry
Berker , lodere . PASTON,I,491.155.4795

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde in alle hast possible have thatt same gowne off puke furryd
wyth whyght <P_I,492> lambe . PASTON,I,492.155.4796

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I wolde have my longe russett gowne off +te Frenshe russett in
alle hast , PASTON,I,492.155.4797

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I have no gowne to goo in here . PASTON,I,492.155.4798

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I praye yow recomande me to my moodre , PASTON,I,492.155.4799

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and late vs alle preye God sende my lady off Norffolk a soone ,
PASTON,I,492.155.4800

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore vppon +tat restythe moche mater . PASTON,I,492.155.4801

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For iff +te Kyngys soone mary my lordys dowghtre , the Kynge wolde +tat
hys soone sholde have a fayre place in Norffolk , thowhe he sholde
gyffe me ij tymes +te valywe in other londe , as I am doon to weete .
PASTON,I,492.155.4802

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me worde off my ladyes spede as soone as ye kan .
PASTON,I,492.155.4803

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for Bowen , I shall fele hym , PASTON,I,492.155.4804

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sholde have doon thowghe ye hadde nott sente .
PASTON,I,492.155.4805

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , ther is offryd me a goode mariage fore my suster Anne , Skypwyth
- thys sone and heyre off Lynkolneshyre , a man v or vj=c= $marke
{TEXT:mrke} by yeere . PASTON,I,492.155.4806

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more . PASTON,I,492.155.4807

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te xxvij daye off Janyvere A=o= E. iiij=ti= xv=o= .
PASTON,I,492.155.4808

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my lady off Excester is ded , PASTON,I,492.155.4809

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it was seyde +tat bothe +te olde Dywchesse off Norffolk and +te
Cowntesse off Oxenfforde weere ded , PASTON,I,492.155.4810

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but itt is nott soo yitte . PASTON,I,492.155.4811

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I shall remembre Caleyse bothe-1 for horse and alle .
PASTON,I,492.155.4812

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , Phylypp Lovedaye is heere comyn thys daye ,
PASTON,I,492.155.4813

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wyll be wyth yow in hast . PASTON,I,492.155.4814

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_155:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He comythe home for goode and alle . PASTON,I,492.155.4815

<Q_PAS_A_1476_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_156> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,496>

{ED:300._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1476,_30_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquiere , beyng at the syngne off the George
at Powles Wharf . </font> PASTON,I,496.156.4816

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I recomaunde me to yow , letyng yow weete +tat I hav receyvyd yowre
letter wretyn the next daye aftre Mydsomer ; for answer wheroff I
thynke +tat to be bownde in v=c= $marke {TEXT:mrke} I thynke it is to
moche , where-as I felt by yow ye sholde have wyth +te gentylwoman but
iiij=c= . PASTON,I,496.156.4817

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuer the lesse I agree . PASTON,I,496.156.4818

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But ye shall vndrestande +tat I wyll not be bownde for yow +tat ye
shall make hyre joyntoure past xx li. by yere wyth-in a sertayne daye
lymyted , be it j yere ore ij ; PASTON,I,496.156.4819

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+tat is +te largest +tat ye maye performe . PASTON,I,496.156.4820

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For as fore the maner off Sparham , my moodre and ye acorde nott in
yowre sayngys . PASTON,I,496.156.4821

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She wyll nowght graunte yow ther-in whylse she levyth , saff , as she
seythe to me , she hathe grauntyd yow x $marke {TEXT:mrke} by yeere
tyll xl li. be payed , +tat is but vj yeere . PASTON,I,496.156.4822

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And afftre hyre dyscease she woll agree wyth goode will , so +tat it
maye be yowre proferment +tat ye sholde have +tat maner in joyntur wyth
yowre wyffe to +te lenger lyvere off yow bothe , payng x $marke
{TEXT:mrke} by yeere , soo ore there as she wyll +tat it shall be .
PASTON,I,496.156.4823

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Therfore as for 1 $marke {TEXT:mrke} joyntur , I pray yow bynde me in
no suche clawse butt iff it be for xx li. by a resonable daye , and xx
$marke {TEXT:mrke} afftre the dyssease off my moodre .
PASTON,I,496.156.4824

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Take example at Derby . PASTON,I,496.156.4825

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , ye make yow sywerere than I deme yow bee , PASTON,I,496.156.4826

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I deme +tat here frendes wyll nott be content wyth Bedyngffeldys
sywerte` nore yowrys . PASTON,I,496.156.4827

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme thys mater will ocopy lenger leysere than ye deme fore .
PASTON,I,496.156.4828

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I remembre thatt thys mony +tat she sholde have is nott redy ,
but in the handes off marchauntys off the Estaple , whyche at a prove
ye shall fynde par case so slakke payerys +tat ye myght be deseyvyd
ther-by . PASTON,I,496.156.4829

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I knowe dyverse have lost mony er they cowde gete ther dywte`s owte off
th'Estaple . PASTON,I,496.156.4830

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God spede yow PASTON,I,496.156.4831

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sende yow +tat ye wolde have . PASTON,I,496.156.4832

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sende yow +te obligacion her-wyth acordyng to yowre desyre , and a
letter to Bedyngffelde thankyng hym for yow , and more-ouer letyng hym
know off myn entent . PASTON,I,496.156.4833

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Opyn it PASTON,I,496.156.4834

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and close it ageyn iff ye lyst . PASTON,I,496.156.4835

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , wher I tolde yow +tat the gowne clothe off olde chamlott I wolde
have it hoome for my suster Anne , ye for-gate it .
PASTON,I,496.156.4836

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende it home by the next massenger , and a letter wyth it
off suche tydyngys as ye knowe . PASTON,I,496.156.4837

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , blissed be God , I have Castre at my will .
PASTON,I,496.156.4838

<P_I,497>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God holde it better than it {ED:was}_BED doone her-to-foore .
PASTON,I,497.156.4839

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore , but wretyn the next daye afftre Seynt Petre , A=o= E.
iiij=ti= xvj=o= . PASTON,I,497.156.4840

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
LETTER:PASTON_156:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,497.156.4841

<Q_PAS_A_1476?_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_157> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,497>

{ED:301._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_PROBABLY_1476,_30_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margret Paston . </font> PASTON,I,497.157.4842

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to wete +tat I was vppon Tywesdaye , the daye +tat I
departyd froo yowe , wyth my brothere John at Atelborow by viij off the
clokke at euyn , and founde hym in suche case as iff ye had seyn hym
than ye wolde nowe be as gladde of hym osse off a nywe sone .
PASTON,I,497.157.4843

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wenyd nott +tat he scholde not have levyd tyll +te mornyng , in so
moche +tat by my trowthe I dare seye +tat iff it had nott fortunyd vs
to have comyn to hym , he had $not been on lyve on Wednysdaye ;
PASTON,I,497.157.4844

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore syns Saterdaye slepyd he nott iiij howrys , PASTON,I,497.157.4845

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yitt iij off them was syns I come thydyre , on-to thys nyght .
PASTON,I,497.157.4846

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And thys nyght , blessyd be God , he hathe slepyd well ,
PASTON,I,497.157.4847

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wyth Goddys grace I dowte nott but thatt he shall do weell ,
PASTON,I,497.157.4848

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore hys agywe is goone , PASTON,I,497.157.4849

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and alle +tat laye in hys stomake and vndre hys syde it weryth aweye .
PASTON,I,497.157.4850

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And wyth-in a daye ore ij I hope he shall be so stronge +tat I maye
come frome hym , PASTON,I,497.157.4851

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hopyth to see yowe wyth-in fewe days afftre , as he seythe .
PASTON,I,497.157.4852

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
On Wednysdaye I wysshyd to hym +tat he and I hadde been at Norwyche ;
whervppon he harpyd all +tat nyght , and fore $cawse {TEXT:case} he
hadde nott so goode rest as he wolde , it fylle in hys brayne to come
to Norwyche , and he in an angre wolde nedys to horse -
PASTON,I,497.157.4853

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
he wolde non horsse litter , he was so stronge . PASTON,I,497.157.4854

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse we wenyd nott +tat he sholde have been able to have redyn
a myle , PASTON,I,497.157.4855

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wenyd +tat it had nott been possible to have passyd Wyndham .
PASTON,I,497.157.4856

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Bott whan he was vppe fore +tat we seyde he roode so welle he ledde vss
a dawnce faster than alle we cowde weell folowe . PASTON,I,497.157.4857

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He was at Wyndham , by my trowthe , in lesse +tan an howre , by a large
quartere , PASTON,I,497.157.4858

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther restyd hym an howre , PASTON,I,497.157.4859

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and to horse ageyne PASTON,I,497.157.4860

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and was heere in lesse than <P_I,498> an howre and on halffe .
PASTON,I,498.157.4861

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And now he dowtyth nott to slepe weell , PASTON,I,498.157.4862

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore he seythe +tat he neuer faylyd to slepe weell in that bedde +tat
he hathe chosyn now at Frenshys ; PASTON,I,498.157.4863

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thusse I hope he be sauffe . PASTON,I,498.157.4864

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I ame in dowte whethyre I shall wyth-in ij dayes owther come home
to yow ore ellis to goo forthe as ye woote off . PASTON,I,498.157.4865

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore , &c . PASTON,I,498.157.4866

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Frydaye next the Decollacion off Seynt John Baptyst .
PASTON,I,498.157.4867

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I have the wryghtyngys off Richard Calle . PASTON,I,498.157.4868

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:34?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_157:M4:1476?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowre sone J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,498.157.4869

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_158> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,498>

{ED:302._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_14_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquyer , at Norwyche in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,498.158.4870

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I recomaunde me to yow , letyng yow weete +tat yisterdaye beganne the
grete cowncell to whyche all the astatys off +te londe shall com to ,
butt iff it be for gret and resonable excusis . PASTON,I,498.158.4871

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I suppose +te cheffe cawse of thys assemble` is to comon what is
best to doo $now vppon +te greet change by the dethe off +te Duke of
Burgoyne , and for +te kepyng off Caleys and the Marchys , and for the
preseruacion off +te amyte`ys taken late as weell wyth Fraunce as now
wyth the membrys off Flaundrys ; wher-to I dowt nott +ter shall be jn
all hast bothe +te Dukys off Clarance and Glowcestre , wheroff I wolde
+tat my brother E. wyst . PASTON,I,498.158.4872

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I feele butt litell effecte in the labore off W. Alyngton ;
PASTON,I,498.158.4873

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
neuerthelesse I deme it is nott for yow . PASTON,I,498.158.4874

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She shall nott passe cc $marke {TEXT:mrke} , as ferre as I can
vndrestand aparte . PASTON,I,498.158.4875

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I will nott forget yow other-wyse . PASTON,I,498.158.4876

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Itt is so +tat thys daye I heer grett liklyhood +tat my Lorde Hastyngys
shall hastely goo to Caleys wyth greet company . PASTON,I,498.158.4877

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff I thynke it be fore yow to be on , I shall nott for-geet yow .
PASTON,I,498.158.4878

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , thys daye the mater by-twyen Mestresse Anne Haulte and me hathe
ben soore broken bothe to +te Cardynall , to my Lorde Chamberleyn , and
to my-selffe , PASTON,I,498.158.4879

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I am in goode hope . PASTON,I,498.158.4880

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
When I heer and knowe moore , I shalle sende yow worde .
PASTON,I,498.158.4881

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It semythe +tat the worlde is alle qwaveryng . PASTON,I,498.158.4882

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It will reboyle somwher , so +tat I deme yonge men shall be cherysshyd
; PASTON,I,498.158.4883

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
take <P_I,499> yowre hert to yow . PASTON,I,499.158.4884

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I feer +tat I can nott be excusyd , but +tat I shall forthe wyth my
Lorde Hastyngys ouyre +te see ; PASTON,I,499.158.4885

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
butt I shall sende yow worde in hast , PASTON,I,499.158.4886

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff I goo I hope nott to tary longe . PASTON,I,499.158.4887

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , to my brother Edmond : I am like to speke wyth Mestresse Dyxon
in hast , PASTON,I,499.158.4888

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som deme +tat +ter shall be condyssendyd +tat iff E. P. come to
London +tat hys costys shall be payed fore . PASTON,I,499.158.4889

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shall hastely sende yow worde off more thyngys .
PASTON,I,499.158.4890

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te xiiij daye off Feuerere A=o= E. iiij=ti= xvj=o= ,
+te Fryday a-fore Fastyngong . PASTON,I,499.158.4891

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_158:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,499.158.4892

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_159> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,499>

{ED:303._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_9_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquyere , in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,499.159.4893

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I have receyvyd yowre letter and yow {ED:r} man J. Bykerton , by whom I
knowe all +te mater off Mestresse Brews , whyche iff it be as he seythe
I praye Godde brynge it to a goode ende . PASTON,I,499.159.4894

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for thys mater off Mestresse Barly , I holde it butt a bare
thynge . PASTON,I,499.159.4895

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I feele weell +tat itt passyth nott <em> ... </em> marke .
PASTON,I,499.159.4896

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I syghe hyre fore yowre sake . PASTON,I,499.159.4897

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She is a lytell onys ; PASTON,I,499.159.4898

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
she maye be a woman heere-afftre , iff she be nott olde nowe :
PASTON,I,499.159.4899

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
hire person semyth xiij yere off age , PASTON,I,499.159.4900

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
hyre yerys men sey ben full xviij . PASTON,I,499.159.4901

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She $knowyth {TEXT:kowyth} nott off the mater , I suppose .
PASTON,I,499.159.4902

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse she desyryd to see me as gladde as I wasse to se hyre .
PASTON,I,499.159.4903

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me som wryghtyng to Caleys off yowre spede wyth
Mestresse Brewys . PASTON,I,499.159.4904

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Bykerton tellyth me +tat she lovyth yow weell . PASTON,I,499.159.4905

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff I dyed I hadde lever ye hadde hyre than the Lady Wargrave ;
PASTON,I,499.159.4906

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
neuerthelesse she syngeth weell wyth an harpe . PASTON,I,499.159.4907

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Clopton is aferde off Syr T. Greye , PASTON,I,499.159.4908

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he is a wydowere now late , PASTON,I,499.159.4909

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and men sey +tat he is aqueyntyd wyth hyre of olde .
PASTON,I,499.159.4910

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomore . PASTON,I,499.159.4911

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Sondaye the ix daye off Marche A=o= E. iiij=ti= xvij=o= to
Caleys warde . PASTON,I,499.159.4912

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,499.159.4913

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_159:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff ye haue Mestresse Brews and E. Paston Mestresse Bylyngford , ye be
lyke to be bretheryn . PASTON,I,499.159.4914

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_160> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,500>

{ED:304._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1477,_28_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worshypfull moodre Margret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,500.160.4915

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please it yow to weete +tat I have receyvyd yowre letter wherin is
remembryd the gret hurte +tat by liklihod myght falle to my brother
John iff so be +tat thys mater betwyn hym and Syr Thomas Brewses
doghtre take nott effecte , wheroff I wolde be as sory as hym-selffe
reasonably ; and also +te welthy and convenyent mariage +tat scholde be
iff it take effecte , wheroff I wolde be as gladde as any man , and ame
better content nowe +tat he sholde have hyre than any other +tat euyre
he was hertoffoore abowte to have hadde - concyderyd hyre persone ,
hyre yowthe , and the stok +tat she is comyn offe , +te love on bothe
sydes , +te tendre fauore +tat she is in wyth hyre fadre and moodre ,
the kyndenesse off hyre fadre and moodre to hyre in departyng wyth hyre
, the favore also and goode conceyte +tat they have in my brothere ,
the worshypfull and vertuous dysposicion off hire fadre and moodre ,
whyche prenostikyth +tat of lyklihod the mayde sholde be vertuous and
goode . All whyche concyderyd , and the necessary relyffe +tat my
brother most have , I mervayle the lesse +tat ye have departyd and
geuyn hym the maner of Sperham in suche forme as I haue knowleche off
by W. Gornay , Lomnore , and Skypwyth ; PASTON,I,500.160.4916

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I ame ryght gladde to se in yow suche kyndenesse on-to my brother
as ye have doon to hym , PASTON,I,500.160.4917

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and wolde by my trowthe levere than c li. +tat it weere fee symple
londe , as it is entaylyd , whyche by liklyhood scholde prospere wyth
hym and hyis blode the better in tyme to come and sholde also neuer
cavse debate in owre bloode in tyme to come , whyche Godde dyffende
PASTON,I,500.160.4918

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for that weere onnaturell . PASTON,I,500.160.4919

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , an other jnconvenyence is , wher as I vndrestande +tat the maner
is gevyn to my brother and to hys wyff and to +te issywe bytwen them
bygoten , iff the case weer soo +tat he and she hadde yssywe togedre a
dowtre ore moo , and hys wyffe dyed and he maried afftre an othere and
hadde issywe a sone , +tat sone sholde have noon londe , and he beyng
hys fadris heyre . PASTON,I,500.160.4920

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for th'enconvenyence +tat I have knowe late in vre in case lyke ,
and yit enduryth , in Kente by-twyen a jentylman and his sustre , I
wolde ye toke the advyce off yowre concell in thys poynt .
PASTON,I,500.160.4921

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that +tat is past yow by wryghtyng ore by promyse I deme verrely in
yow +tat ye dyd it off kyndenesse and in eschywyng off a moore yll +tat
myght befall . PASTON,I,500.160.4922

<P_I,501>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , where as it pleasyth yow that I sholde ratefye , grawnt , ore
conferme the seyde gyfte on-to my brother , it is so +tat wyth myn
honeste` I may nott , and for other cawses . PASTON,I,501.160.4923

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Pope will suffre a thyng to be vsyd , PASTON,I,501.160.4924

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he will nott lycence nor grant it to be vsyd ner don ; and soo I .
PASTON,I,501.160.4925

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My brother John knowyth myn entent weell j-now heer-to-foore in thys
mater . PASTON,I,501.160.4926

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will be fownde to hym as kynde a brother as I maye be .
PASTON,I,501.160.4927

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , iff it be soo +tat Syr T. Brews and hys wyff thynke +tat I wolde
troble my brother and hys wyff in the seyde maner , I can fynde no
meene to putte them in sywerte` +ter-off but iff it weere to be bownde
in an obligacion , wyth a condicion +tat I shalle nott trowble ner
inquiete them ther-in . PASTON,I,501.160.4928

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I thynke +tat she is made sywer j-now in astate in the londe ,
and that off right I deme they shall make noone obstacles at my
wryghtyng , PASTON,I,501.160.4929

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I hadde neuer non astate in the londe , PASTON,I,501.160.4930

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nere I wolde nott +tat I had hadde . PASTON,I,501.160.4931

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No mor to yow at thys tyme , but All-myghty God have yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,501.160.4932

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_160:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Caleys the xxviij daye off Marche A=o= E. iiij xvjj=o= . By
yowr sone J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,501.160.4933

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_161> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,501>

{ED:305._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_14_APRIL}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquyere . </font> PASTON,I,501.161.4934

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshypfull and hertely belovyd brother , I recomaunde me to yow
, letyng yow weete +tat as by Pyrse Moody when he was heer I hadde no
leysere to sende answere in wryghtyng to yow and to my cosyne Gurnaye
off yowre letteris ; PASTON,I,501.161.4935

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
butt for a conclusion , ye shalle fynde me to yowe as kynde as I maye
be , my conciense and worshyp savyd , whyche when I speke wyth yowe and
them ye bothe shall weell vndrestande . PASTON,I,501.161.4936

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I praye God sende yow as goode speede in +tat mater as I wolde ye
hadde , and as I hope ye shall have er thys letter come to yow ;
PASTON,I,501.161.4937

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I praye Gode sende yow yssywe betwyne yow +tat maye be as honorable
as euer was any off yowre ancestris and theris , wheroff I wolde be as
gladde in maner as off myn owne . Wherffor I praye yow sende me worde
how ye doo , PASTON,I,501.161.4938

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff Godde fortune me to doo weell , and be off any powere , I woll
be to Syr Thomas Brewse and my lady hys wyffe a verry sone in lawe for
yowre sake , and take <P_I,502> them as ye doo , and doo for them as
iff I weere in case lyke wyth them as {in}_P ye bee .
PASTON,I,502.161.4939

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore , but Jesus have yow in kepyng . PASTON,I,502.161.4940

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Caleys the xiiij daye off Aprill A=o= E. iiij=ti= xvij=o= .
PASTON,I,502.161.4941

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys her , the Frenshe Kynge hathe gothen many off the
townys off the Dukys off Borgoyne , as Seynt Quyntynys , Abevyle ,
Motrell , PASTON,I,502.161.4942

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and now off late he hathe goten Betoyne and Hedynge wyth +te castell
ther , whyche is on off +te ryallest castellys off the worlde ;
PASTON,I,502.161.4943

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and on Sonday at euyn the Ameralle off Fraunce leyde seege at Boloyne ,
PASTON,I,502.161.4944

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys daye it is seyde +tat +te Frenshe Kynge shalle com thyddre ,
PASTON,I,502.161.4945

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys nyght it is seyde +tat ther was a vysion seyne abowte +te
wallys off Boloyne , as it hadde ben a woman wyth a mervylowse lyght ;
PASTON,I,502.161.4946

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
men deme +tat Owre Lady there will shewe hyre-selffe a lovere to +tat
towne . PASTON,I,502.161.4947

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God forfende +tat it weer Frenshe ; PASTON,I,502.161.4948

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
it weer worthe xl m=l= li. +tat it were Englyshe .
PASTON,I,502.161.4949

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_161:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. Paston , K. PASTON,I,502.161.4950

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_162> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,504>

{ED:307._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_23_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esqwyere . </font> PASTON,I,504.162.4951

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I recomand me to yow , letyng yow weete +tat I have spoken wyth Herry
Colett and entretyd hym in my best wyse for yow , soo +tat at +te last
he is agreyd to a resonable respyght for +te xv li. +tat ye sholde have
payd hym at Mydsomer , as he seyth , and is gladde to do yow ease or
plesyre in all +tat he maye . PASTON,I,504.162.4952

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I tolde hym +tat ye wolde , as I supposyd , be heere at London
herre nott longe to , PASTON,I,504.162.4953

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and than he lokyth afftre +tat ye sholde com see hym ,
PASTON,I,504.162.4954

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he is sheryff PASTON,I,504.162.4955

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hathe a goodely hows . PASTON,I,504.162.4956

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my lady off Oxenfforth lokyth afftre yow , and Arblaster bothe .
PASTON,I,504.162.4957

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lorde off Oxenfford is nott comen jn-to Inglonde +tat I can perceyve
, PASTON,I,504.162.4958

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so +te goode lady hathe nede off helpe and cowncell howe +tat she
shall doo . PASTON,I,504.162.4959

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No moore at thys tyme , butt God have yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,504.162.4960

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn att London on Seynt Awdryes Daye A=o= E. iiij=ti= xvij=o= .
PASTON,I,504.162.4961

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Tydyngys , butt +tat yisterdaye my lady Marqueys off Dorset , whyche is
my Lady Hastyngys dowtre , hadd chylde a sone . PASTON,I,504.162.4962

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my Lord Chamberleyn is comyn hyddre fro Caleys and redyn wyth
+te Kynge to Wyndeshore , PASTON,I,504.162.4963

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +te Kynge wille be here ageyn on Mondaye . PASTON,I,504.162.4964

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_162:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. , K. PASTON,I,504.162.4965

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_163> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,504>

{ED:308._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1477,_7_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To +te ryght worshypfull Mestresse Margret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,504.163.4966

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat I have receyvyd yowre letter wretyn +te
Tywesdaye nexte afftre Seynt James Daye , wherin ye desyre me to
remembre Kokett , and also to be helpyng to my brother Johnys mariage .
PASTON,I,504.163.4967

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As fore Kokett , as God helpe me I knowe nott yitt the meanys possible
+tat I myght <P_I,505> paye hym by thatt daye ; PASTON,I,505.163.4968

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for thoos materis +tat be off grettest wyght and charge and +tat stonde
nerrest my weell , +tat is to seye the sywerte` off +te maner off
Castre , and the mater bytwen Anne Hault and me , shall wyth Goddys
grace thys terme be at a perffyght ende , whyche will charge me
ferthere than I have mony as yitt , ore lyke to have byffore that tyme
off myn owne , PASTON,I,505.163.4969

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as God helpe me I wote nott where to borow . PASTON,I,505.163.4970

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I most paye wyth-in thys iij yeere jjjj=c= $marke {TEXT:mrke} to
Towneshende ore ellis forffett the maner off Sporle ,
PASTON,I,505.163.4971

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thus my chargys be gretter than I maye a-weye wyth , concidryd
suche helpe as I have . PASTON,I,505.163.4972

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff it fortunyd +tat I forffetyd the maner off Sporle , ye weere
neuer lyke to se me myry afftre , so God helpe me .
PASTON,I,505.163.4973

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye gave me onys xx li. to it wardys , PASTON,I,505.163.4974

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye promyttyd as moche , whyche I receyvyd ; PASTON,I,505.163.4975

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and synnys off my mony off seyde maner growyng +tat come to yowre
handys was receyvyd by yow ageyn the seyde xl li. , whyche when Kokett
scholde be payed was nott yowre ease to departe wyth .
PASTON,I,505.163.4976

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse ye maye yitt , when yow lyketh , perfforme yowre sayde
gyffte and promyse , PASTON,I,505.163.4977

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys somme owyng to Kokett is nott so moche . PASTON,I,505.163.4978

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse I suppose +tat ye be nott so weell purveyd ; wherffore ,
iff it please yow at yowre ease here-afftre to performe yowre seyde
gyffte and promysse , so +tat I maye have it wyth-in a yere ore ij ,
ore yitt iij , I sholde par case gete yowre obligacion to yow ageyn
from Kokett , and he pleasyd . Wherffor I beseche yow +tat I maye have
an assyngnement off suche dettys as been owyng yow , payeable at
leysere off suche mony as is owyng for the woode at Basyngham ore
ellys-wher , PASTON,I,505.163.4979

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for so God helpe me I sholde ellys wylfully ondoo my-selffe ; wherin I
beseche yow to sende me an answere in hast . PASTON,I,505.163.4980

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as towchyng the mariage off my brother John , I have sente hym
myn advyce and tolde hym wherto he shall truste , PASTON,I,505.163.4981

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I have grauntyd hym as moche as I maye . PASTON,I,505.163.4982

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde +tat I weere at on comunycacion atwyen them for hys sake ,
whyche {at}_P I sholde iff I myght . PASTON,I,505.163.4983

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As fore my comyng home , I ame nott yitt sertayn theroff .
PASTON,I,505.163.4984

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shalle hast me as faste as I canne , wyth +te grace off God , who
have yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,505.163.4985

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow to remembre the premyssis and to helpe me ,
PASTON,I,505.163.4986

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wyth Goddys grace thes ij materis above wretyn , bothe-1 off Castre
and Mestresse Anne Hault , shall be endyd to my profyth and rest , and
moore-ovyre ere awghte longe to , wyth Goddys grace , the maner off
Sporle to be owte off dangere ; promyttyng yow +tat I shall doo jn
Kokettys mater as moche as is possible for me to doo to yowre plesyre .
PASTON,I,505.163.4987

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It shall neuer neede to prykk nor threte a free horse .
PASTON,I,505.163.4988

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I shall do whatt I can . PASTON,I,505.163.4989

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_163:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Thorysdaye next byffore Seynt Lawrence A=o= E. iiij=ti=
xvij=o= . By yowre sone John Paston , K. PASTON,I,505.163.4990

<Q_PAS_A_1478_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_164> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,510>

{ED:311_TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1478,_13_MAY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght worshypfull moodre Margrete Paston be thys delyueryd
. </font> PASTON,I,510.164.4991

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat , where as I entendyd to have ben at home
thys Mydsomer , and purposyd wyth yowre goode helpe to have bygonne
vppon my fadrys tombe so +tat it myght have ben endyd thys somyre , it
is soo +tat fore suche cawsys as are nowe bygynne by-twyen my lorde off
Suffolk and me for the manerys off Heylesdon , Drayton , &c. , for
whyche materis I most nedys be heere thys nexte terme , therffor I deme
jt wolle be afftre Mydsomer ere than I can see yowe .
PASTON,I,510.164.4992

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow also to weete +tat I comonyd wyth Master Pykenham to
weete iffe he wolde bye the clothe off golde fore soo moche as he
desyryd onys {for}_P to have bowte it , PASTON,I,510.164.4993

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he offryd me onys xx marke therffore . PASTON,I,510.164.4994

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse it coste me xxiiij li. ; PASTON,I,510.164.4995

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
yit nowe when +tat I spake to hym ther-off he refusyd to bye it ,
PASTON,I,510.164.4996

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and seyde +tat he hadde nowe so many chargys +tat he maye nott .
PASTON,I,510.164.4997

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Butt it is soo +tat the Kynge dothe make sertayne copys and vestymentys
off like clothe whyche he entendyth to gyve to the coledge at
Foodryngeye wher my lorde hys fadre is nowe buryed , and he byethe at a
grete pryce . PASTON,I,510.164.4998

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I comonyd wyth the vestment maker for to helpe me forthe wyth xij
yerdys , PASTON,I,510.164.4999

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hathe grauntyd me to doo , as Whetleye can telle yow ; wherffor
, iff it plese yow that it be bystowyd for to make a towmbe for my
fadre at Bromholme , iff ye lyke to sende it hyddre , iffe it be solde
I vndretake or Mychelmesse +tat ther shalle be a tombe and somwhatt
ellys ovyre my fadris grave , on whoys sowle God have mersye , +tat
ther shalle noone be lyke it in Norffolk , and as ye shalle be gladde
herafftre to see it . PASTON,I,510.164.5000

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And Gode sende me leyser +tat I maye come home ; PASTON,I,510.164.5001

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and iff I doo nott , yit the monye shalle be pitte to noon other vse
butt kepyd by some +tat ye trust tylle +tat it maye be bystowyd
acordyng as is above wretyn ; PASTON,I,510.164.5002

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ellys I gyve yow cawse neuyre to trust me whylle ye and I lyve .
PASTON,I,510.164.5003

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
When I was last wyth yow ye grauntyd +tat the seyde clothe off golde
sholde be bywaryd abowte thys werke +tat is above wretyn , whyche iff
ye wylle perfforme , I vndretake +tat ther shalle be suche a towmbe as
ye shalle be pleased wyth , thowghe it cost me xx marke off myn owne
purse besyde , iff I onys sette vppon it . PASTON,I,510.164.5004

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , but I beseche Goode have yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,510.164.5005

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te Wednysdaye in Whyghtsonweke A=o= E. iiij=ti=
xviij=o= . PASTON,I,510.164.5006

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to sende me worde by Whetleye off yowre plesyre her-in .
PASTON,I,510.164.5007

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:36
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_164:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
By yowre sone John Paston , K. PASTON,I,510.164.5008

<Q_PAS_A_1478_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_165> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,511>

{ED:312._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1478,_25_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Paston , esquyere , be thys lettre delyueryd , ore to my
mestresse hys wyfe at Norwych to delyuer to hym . </font>
PASTON,I,511.165.5009

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Brother John , I recomaund me to yow , PASTON,I,511.165.5010

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I thanke God , my sustre yowre wyffe , and yow off my fayre nevywe
Crystofre whyche I vndrestande ye have , where-off I ame ryght gladde
PASTON,I,511.165.5011

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I praye God sende yow manye iff it be hys plesyre .
PASTON,I,511.165.5012

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse ye be nott kynde +tat ye sende me no wetyng ther-off ;
PASTON,I,511.165.5013

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I hadde knowleche by footemen ore euer ye kowde fynde any massanger on
horsbak to brynge me worde ther-off . PASTON,I,511.165.5014

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , it is soo +tat the Duke off Bokyngham shall come on pilgrymage to
Walsyngham , and so to Bokenham Castell to my lady hys sustre ,
PASTON,I,511.165.5015

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and then it is supposyd +tat he shalle to my lady off Norffolk ;
PASTON,I,511.165.5016

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and myn oncle William comythe wyth hym . PASTON,I,511.165.5017

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And he tellyth me +tat ther is like to be troble in the maner off
Oxenhed , wherffore I praye yow take hede lesse +tat the Duke off
Suffolk councell pley therwyth now at the vacacion off the beneffyse as
they ded wyth the beneffice off Drayton , whyche by the helpe off
Master John Salett and Donne hys man ther was a qweste made by the
seyde Donne +tat fownde +tat the Duke off Suffolk was verrye patrone ,
whyche was false PASTON,I,511.165.5018

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
yitt they ded it fore an euydence . PASTON,I,511.165.5019

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But nowe iff any suche pratte scholde be laboryd it is , I hope , in
bettre case , PASTON,I,511.165.5020

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for suche a thynge most needys be fownde byffore Master John Smyth ,
whyche is owre olde freende ; wherffor I praye yow labore hym +tat iff
neede bee he maye doo vsse a freendys torne ther-in .
PASTON,I,511.165.5021

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , bothe ye ande I most nedys take thys matere as owre owne ,
PASTON,I,511.165.5022

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it weere for noon other cawse butt for owre goode grawntdames sake
. PASTON,I,511.165.5023

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthe lesse ye woote well thatt ther is an other entresse longyng to
vsse afftre here dysceasse . PASTON,I,511.165.5024

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iffe ther be any suche thynge begune ther by suche a fryere or prest ,
as it is seyde , I mervayle +tat ye sente me no worde ther-off ;
PASTON,I,511.165.5025

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
butt ye haue nowe wyffe and chylder , and so moche to kare fore thatt
ye forgete me . PASTON,I,511.165.5026

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} tydyngys here , I her telle +tat my cosyn Syr
Robert Chamberleyn hathe entryd the maner off Scolton vppon yowre
bedffelawe Conyerse , wher-off ye sende me no worde .
PASTON,I,511.165.5027

<P_I,512>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , yonge William Brandon is in warde and arestyd fore thatt he
scholde have by force ravysshyd and swyvyd an olde jentylwoman , and
yitt was nott therwyth easyd but swyvyd hyr oldest dowtre and than
wolde have swyvyd the othere sustre bothe , wher-fore men sey fowle off
hym , that he wolde ete the henne and alle her chekynnys ;
PASTON,I,512.165.5028

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and som sey +tat the Kynge entendyth to sitte vppon hym ,
PASTON,I,512.165.5029

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and men seye he is lyke to be hangyd , PASTON,I,512.165.5030

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe weddyd a wedowe . PASTON,I,512.165.5031

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the pagent +tat men sey +tat the Erle off Oxenforde hathe
pleyid atte Hammys , I suppose ye have herde theroff ,
PASTON,I,512.165.5032

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
itt is so longe agoo . PASTON,I,512.165.5033

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I was nott jn thys contre` when the tydyngys come ,
PASTON,I,512.165.5034

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
therfor I sent yow no worde ther-off ; PASTON,I,512.165.5035

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
butt for conclusion , as I here seye , he lyepe +te wallys
PASTON,I,512.165.5036

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wente to +te dyke and in-to +te dyke to +te chynne , to whatt
entent I $can $not {TEXT:cannott} telle - PASTON,I,512.165.5037

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
some sey to stele awey PASTON,I,512.165.5038

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and some thynke he wolde have drownyd hym-selfe , PASTON,I,512.165.5039

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so it is demyd . PASTON,I,512.165.5040

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , butt I ame nott sertayne whether I shall come home in hast
ore nott . PASTON,I,512.165.5041

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London the daye nexte Seynt Bartelmewe A=o= E. iiij=ti=
xviij=o= . PASTON,I,512.165.5042

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34
LETTER:PASTON_165:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,512.165.5043

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_166> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,512>

{ED:313._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1479,_ABOUT_MAY_-_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Mestresse Margrete Paston be thys delyueryd . </font>
PASTON,I,512.166.5044

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat I sende yow by Barkere , the berere heroff
, iij triacle pottes off Geane , as my potecarie swerytht on-to me ,
and mooreouyre that they weer neuer ondoo syns +tat they come from
Geane ; wheroff ye shalle take as many as pleasyth yow .
PASTON,I,512.166.5045

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthe lesse my brother John sente to me for ij ;
PASTON,I,512.166.5046

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+terfore I most beseche yowe +tat he maye have at +te leste on .
PASTON,I,512.166.5047

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
There is on potte +tat is morkyn ondre +te bottome ij tymes wyth thyes
letteris , ' M. P. ' , whyche potte I have best truste on-too , and
nexte hym to +te wryghe potte ; PASTON,I,512.166.5048

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I mystruste moost +te potte +tat hathe a krotte abovyn <P_I,513> in
the toppe , lesse +tat he hathe ben ondoone . PASTON,I,513.166.5049

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And also the other ij pottys be prentyd wyth +te marchauntys marke too
tymes on the coueryngys , PASTON,I,513.166.5050

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and that other potte is butt onys morkyn but wyth on prente .
PASTON,I,513.166.5051

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Notwythstondyng I hadde lyke othe and promyse for on as well as for
alle . PASTON,I,513.166.5052

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , it was soo +tat I was yisterdaye wyth myn oncle Mautebyes wyffe
, and delyueryd yowre letter , and lete her wete also +tat ye had
wretyn to me to speke wyth hyre and to have delyuere` off suche
euydencys as she hathe . PASTON,I,513.166.5053

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And in effecte she is nott dysposyd to delyuer them on-to +te tyme +tat
she be in sywerte` off her mony off the arreragys on-to myn oncle here
husbonde , whyche she seythe is abowte +te somme off xx li. ;
PASTON,I,513.166.5054

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and that doone she woll delyuer them , and ellys nott .
PASTON,I,513.166.5055

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And than I prayed hyre to se them , PASTON,I,513.166.5056

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and soo at +te laste she grauntyd me to see them ,
PASTON,I,513.166.5057

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so yisterdaye I sawe them ; PASTON,I,513.166.5058

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther come iiij off her neyborys PASTON,I,513.166.5059

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wer ther present , whyche as I conseyuyd wer but shewyd and browte
vppe for +tat I sholde thynke +tat she lakked noon helpe ;
PASTON,I,513.166.5060

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and many suche soleyn toyes she hathe , PASTON,I,513.166.5061

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and she hopyth +tat ye sholde depart wyth her wyth a fee off x $marke
{TEXT:mrke} or xx $marke {TEXT:mrke} by yeer . PASTON,I,513.166.5062

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Bott as God helpe me I thynke , contrary to her promyse made to me ,
she hathe laten other folkys see thos euydencys , PASTON,I,513.166.5063

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for she knywe euery dede weelle j-nowe PASTON,I,513.166.5064

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and browte me forthe fyrst iij boxis wyth olde euydencys ,
PASTON,I,513.166.5065

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I syghe neuer older , PASTON,I,513.166.5066

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but as to seye +tat ther be any +tat will avayle , as God helpe me I
deme nott there is nott paste x ore xij olde dedys +tat I wolde gyffe
for a grote , PASTON,I,513.166.5067

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yit ther be abowte an houndred olde dedys in alle iij boxis .
PASTON,I,513.166.5068

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And than for a seconde corse she browte me iij other deedys endentyd
off suche astate as was made to myn ij onclys off Sall , Wynterton ,
&c. , PASTON,I,513.166.5069

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and off them wolde she speke no worde tyll +tat I tolde heer +tat she
most needys have suche ; PASTON,I,513.166.5070

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and soo she wolde graunte noo more , saff +tat I bare hyre soo on hande
+tat I wost weell ther were more , PASTON,I,513.166.5071

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
so at +te last she seyde +tat she shalle delyuer alle iff she have her
monye . PASTON,I,513.166.5072

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It is a peyne to deele wyth hyre . PASTON,I,513.166.5073

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sawe the wylle and testament off myn oncle her hosbonde , whyche is
prowyd and vndre my lorde Kardynallys sealle , and she provyd sool
executryse and hathe taken admynestracion ; PASTON,I,513.166.5074

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I syghe it vndre sealle . Wherffor I thynke beste +tat ye purveye the
on halffe off her arreragys and sende it hyddre , PASTON,I,513.166.5075

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and at +te receyvyng off that halffe I hope +tat she shalle delyuer
alle the euydencys and truste yow for +te other halffe tylle
Candelmesse ore Esterne , as I deme . PASTON,I,513.166.5076

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But jn effecte she moste be sworyn , and other bothe whyche as I shalle
devyse , whyche I deme hathe ouyre-lokyd the euydencys ;
PASTON,I,513.166.5077

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and soo we shall make the best ther-off +tat can be ,
PASTON,I,513.166.5078

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ellys , as she seythe her-selffe and as she lokythe afftre , +tat
ye scholde cause here to be hadde byffor the Chauncelere .
PASTON,I,513.166.5079

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She is in many thyngys full lyke a <P_I,514> wyffe off London and off
Londone kyndenesse , PASTON,I,514.166.5080

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and she woll needys take advise off Londonerys , wheche I telle here
can nott advyse her howghe she scholde deele weell wyth any body off
worshyp . PASTON,I,514.166.5081

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I tolde here +tat she owghte off ryght to truste better to yowre
promyse than ye sholde on-to herys , PASTON,I,514.166.5082

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but ther-in she woll compare wyth a better woman than her-selffe as off
her promyse , PASTON,I,514.166.5083

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yit I deme it is broken . PASTON,I,514.166.5084

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I praye yow sende me worde her-off by the next massengere .
PASTON,I,514.166.5085

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I tolde her also +tat but iffe she pleasyd yow +tat she wer neuer lyke
to have peny ther-off , PASTON,I,514.166.5086

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for she canne nott dystreyne ther-for , PASTON,I,514.166.5087

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for yow , ye neuer receyvyd peny theroff . PASTON,I,514.166.5088

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthe lesse yowre wryghtyng to her and yowre promyse is j-nowghe to
her to be in suerte` +tat she shalle be payed . PASTON,I,514.166.5089

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_166:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I hope to doo welle , and the better for that +tat ye sente me , jn
alle my materys . PASTON,I,514.166.5090

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_J2PASTON> <L_PASTON_167> <A_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1442> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,515>

{ED:315._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1479,_29_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To +te ryght worshypfull Mestresse Margret Paston be thys
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,515.167.5091

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to weete +tat I have ben heer at London a xiiij nyght ,
wher {ED:o} ff the first iiij dayes I was in suche feere off the
syknesse , and also fownde my chambre and stuffe nott so clene as I
demyd , whyche troblyd me soore ; PASTON,I,515.167.5092

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as I tolde yow at my departyng I was nott weell monyed ,
PASTON,I,515.167.5093

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I hadde nott paste x $marke {TEXT:mrke} , wheroff I departyd xl s.
to be delyueryd off my olde bedfelawe , PASTON,I,515.167.5094

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and then I rode be-yonde Donstaple PASTON,I,515.167.5095

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there spake wyth on off my cheffe wittnessis , whyche promysed me
to take labore and to gete me wryghtyngys towchyng thys mater bytwyen
me and +te Duke off Suffolk , PASTON,I,515.167.5096

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I rewardyd hym xx s. ; PASTON,I,515.167.5097

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and then as I jnformyd yow I payed v $marke {TEXT:mrke} jncontynent
vppon my comyng hyddre to replegge owte my $gowne {TEXT:gowe} off
velwett and other geer . PASTON,I,515.167.5098

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And then I hopyd to have borowyd some off $Towneshend {TEXT:Towneshed}
, PASTON,I,515.167.5099

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hathe foodyd me forthe euyre synys , PASTON,I,515.167.5100

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and in effecte I cowde have at +te most and at +te soneste yisterdaye
xx s. ; wherffor I beseche yow to purveye me c s. , and also to wryght
to Pekok +tat he purveye me as moche , c s. , whyche I suppose +tat he
hathe gaderyd at Paston and other placys by thys tyme .
PASTON,I,515.167.5101

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Fore wyth-owte I have thys x li. , as God helpe me , I fere I shalle
doo butt litell goode in noo mater , PASTON,I,515.167.5102

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor yitt I woote nott howe to come home but iff I have it .
PASTON,I,515.167.5103

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thys geer hathe troblyd me so +tat it hathe made me moore than halffe
seke , as God helpe me . PASTON,I,515.167.5104

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I vndrestande +tat myn oncle William hathe made labor to
+t'exchetor , and +tat he hathe bothe a wrytte off diem clawsyth
extremum and also a supercedeas . PASTON,I,515.167.5105

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I have wretyn to +te exchetor $ther-in off myn entent .
PASTON,I,515.167.5106

<P_I,516>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iff myn oncle hadde hys will in that , yitt sholde he be neuer the
nerre the londe , PASTON,I,516.167.5107

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
butt in effecte he shold have thys avauntage whyche is behovefull for a
weyke matere , to have a coloure ore a clooke ore a botrase .
PASTON,I,516.167.5108

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But on Tywesdaye I was wyth +te Bysshop off Hely , whyche shewyth
hym-selffe goode and worshypfull , PASTON,I,516.167.5109

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seyde +tat he sholde sende to myn oncle William +tat he sholde
nott procede in no suche mater till +tat he speke wyth hym ; and
moore-ouyre +tat he scholde cawse hym to be heer hastelye . In whyche
mater is no remedy as nowe , butt iff it were soo +tat +te exchetor ,
iff he be entretyd to sytte by myn oncle William , whyche par case he
shall nott , +tat iff my brother John and Lomnore have knowleche off
the daye , and they myght be there , Lomnore can geve euydence j-now in
that mater wyth-owte +te boke . And more-ouyre +tat they see bothe the
letter and the other noote +tat I sente to +te exchetor , and wyth
helpe off th'exchetor all myght be as beste is . PASTON,I,516.167.5110

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And iff my brother and Lomnor take labor her-in , I shall recompence
ther costys . PASTON,I,516.167.5111

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in haste wyth schort advisemen {ED:t} on the Frydaye next
Seyntys Symond and Jude A=o= E. iiij=ti= xix=o= . PASTON,I,516.167.5112

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Late my brother John se thys bille , PASTON,I,516.167.5113

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he knoweth mor off thys mater . PASTON,I,516.167.5114

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:1442:37
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_167:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , K. PASTON,I,516.167.5115

<Q_PAS_A_1461?_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_168> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,521>

{ED:318._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1461,_10_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my most reuerent and worchepfull fadyr John Paston be thys
delyueryd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,521.168.5116

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Most reuerent and worchepfull fadyr , I recomande me to yow lowly ,
preying yow of yowyr blyssyng and hertly desyiryng to her of yowyr
welfare and prosperyte` , the whyche I prey God preserue and kepe to
hys plesans and to yowyr hertys desyir . PASTON,I,521.168.5117

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to haue knowlage +tat I haue spoke wyth Warwyk and Stwkle`
fore the plase and +te londys in Arleham , PASTON,I,521.168.5118

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they wyle not geue but vj d. for an acre , and they to kepe the
reparacion of the plase ; PASTON,I,521.168.5119

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but so I wold not lete heme haue it . PASTON,I,521.168.5120

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But Stwkle` hathe promysyd me +tat all the londys schalle be purveyd
for as for thys yer . PASTON,I,521.168.5121

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Warwyk was wyth my modyr as thys day , PASTON,I,521.168.5122

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he desyiryth to haue the londys in Arleham for vij d. an acre as
for thys yer . PASTON,I,521.168.5123

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in as myche as Stwkle` had promysyd me to purvey for the londys for
thys yer , I cownselyd my modyr +tat he schuld not haue heme wyth-owt
he wold tak hem for a longer terme . PASTON,I,521.168.5124

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Kook , he wole no lenger hold the plase and the xviij acrys
nowthyr for vij nor viij d. an acr and to kepe the reparacion of the
plase . PASTON,I,521.168.5125

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wole geue but vj d. for an acr , and he to kepe the reparacion of
the plase ; PASTON,I,521.168.5126

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet he wole not be bownde to repare the plase .
PASTON,I,521.168.5127

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so he wole no lenger haue it but he may haue it for vj d .
PASTON,I,521.168.5128

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue spoke wyth Dame Alys Neche and Jaferey Spyrlyng ,
PASTON,I,521.168.5129

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they haue agreyd bothe +tat ther schall be set a tenaunt by bothe
ther assenttys <P_I,522> for to ocwpye the londys that they be at debat
for tyll ye come home , PASTON,I,522.168.5130

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as ye determyne the mater when ye come home they bothe hold hem
wele payid . PASTON,I,522.168.5131

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And All-mythy God haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,522.168.5132

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast on Seynt Martynys Evyn . PASTON,I,522.168.5133

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:17?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:40?
LETTER:PASTON_168:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowyr sone and seruaunt John Paston +te yonger PASTON,I,522.168.5134

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_169> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,522>

{ED:319._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1462,_1_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryth reuerent and worchepfull fadyr John Paston be thys
delyueryd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,522.169.5135

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryth reuerent and worchepfull fadyr , I recomand me on-to yow ,
besechyng yow lowly of yowyr blyssyng . PASTON,I,522.169.5136

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plesyt yow to haue knowlage +tat my lord is purposyd to send for my
lady , and is lyke to kepe hys Crystmas her in Walys ,
PASTON,I,522.169.5137

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for +te Kyng hathe desyiryd hym to do +te same . Wherfor I beseche yow
+tat {ED:ye} wole wychesaue to send me some mony by the berer herof ,
for in good feythe , as it is not onknowyng to yow , +tat I had but ij
noblys in my purse whyche +tat Rychard Call took me by yowyr
comandement when I departyd frome yow owt of Norwyche .
PASTON,I,522.169.5138

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The berer her-of schuld bye me a gowne wyth pert of the mony , if it
plese yow to delyuer hym as myche mony as he may bye it wyth ;
PASTON,I,522.169.5139

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I haue bot on gowne at Framyngham and an othyr her ,
PASTON,I,522.169.5140

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +tat is my leuere` gowne PASTON,I,522.169.5141

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and we must wer hem euery day for +te most part , PASTON,I,522.169.5142

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and on gowne wyth-owt change wyll sone be done . PASTON,I,522.169.5143

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys , my lord of Warwyk yed forward in-to Scotlond as on
Saterday last past wyth xx m=l= men , PASTON,I,522.169.5144

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Syr Wylliam Tunstale is tak wyth +te garyson of Bamborowhg ,
PASTON,I,522.169.5145

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is lyke to be hedyd , by +te menys of Syr Rychard Tunstale is owne
brodyr . PASTON,I,522.169.5146

<P_I,523>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As sone as I her ony more tydyngys I schall send hem yow , by +te grace
of God who haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,523.169.5147

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in hast at the casty {ED:l} of +te Holt vp-on Halowmas Daye .
PASTON,I,523.169.5148

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_169:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowyr sone and lowly seruaunt J. Paston , Junior PASTON,I,523.169.5149

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_170> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,523>

{ED:320._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1462,_11_DECEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryth worchepfull brodyr $John Paston the older , sone of
John Paston , esqwyer , be thys delyueryd in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,523.170.5150

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth worchepfull brodyr , I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,523.170.5151

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat as thys day we had tydyngys her that the Scottys
wyll come in-to Inglond wyth-in vij days aftyr the wryttyng of thys
lettyr for to rescue these iij castellys , Alnewyk , Donsamborowe , and
Bameborowe , whyche castellys wer besegyd as on yesterdaye .
PASTON,I,523.170.5152

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And at the sege of Allnewyk lythe my lord of Kent and +te Lord Scalys ,
PASTON,I,523.170.5153

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at Donsameborow castyll lythe the Erle of Wyrcetyr , Syr Rafe Grey
, PASTON,I,523.170.5154

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at the castyll of Bameborow lythe the Lord Montagwe and +te Lord
Ogyll and othyr dyuers lordys and gentylmen that I knowe not ;
PASTON,I,523.170.5155

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther is to hem owte of Newe-castyll ordynans jnowe bothe for the
segys and for the feld in cas that ther be ony feld takyn , as I trowe
ther $schall {TEXT:scall} none be not yet , PASTON,I,523.170.5156

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the Scottys kepe no promes . PASTON,I,523.170.5157

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord of Warwyk lythe at +te castyll of Warcorthe but iij myle owt of
Alnewyk , PASTON,I,523.170.5158

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he rydyth dayly to all thes castelys for to ouer-se the segys ,
PASTON,I,523.170.5159

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they want vetaylys or ony othyr thyng he is redy for to puruey
it for them to hys power . PASTON,I,523.170.5160

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kyng comandyd my lord of Norfolk for to condyth vetaylys and the
ordynans owt of New-castyll on-to Warcorthe castyll to my lord of
Warwyk , PASTON,I,523.170.5161

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so my lord of Norfolk comandyd Syr John Howard , Syr William Peche
, Syr Robert Chamberleyn , Rafe Ascheton , and me and Calthorp and
Gorge and othyr for to go forthe wyth the vytalys and ordynans on-to my
lord of Warwyk , PASTON,I,523.170.5162

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so we wer wyth my lord of Warwyk wyth +te ordynans and vytalys
yesterdaye . PASTON,I,523.170.5163

<P_I,524>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Kyng lythe at Durham and my lord of Norfolk at New-castyll ;
PASTON,I,524.170.5164

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we haue pepyll j-now her . PASTON,I,524.170.5165

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In cas we abyd her I pray yow puruey +tat I may haue her more mony by
Crystmas Evyn at the ferthest , PASTON,I,524.170.5166

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I may get leue for to send non of my wagyd men home ageyn .
PASTON,I,524.170.5167

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No man can get no leue for to go home but if they stell a-wey ,
PASTON,I,524.170.5168

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they myth be knowe they schud be scharply ponyschyd .
PASTON,I,524.170.5169

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mak as mery as ye can , PASTON,I,524.170.5170

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther is no joperte` toward not yet ; PASTON,I,524.170.5171

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther be ony joperte` I schall sone send yow word , by the grase of
God . PASTON,I,524.170.5172

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wot well ye haue more tydyngys than we haue her ,
PASTON,I,524.170.5173

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thes be trewe tydyngys . PASTON,I,524.170.5174

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yeluerton and Geney ar lek for to be gretly ponyschyd for be-cause they
come not hedyr to the Kyng ; PASTON,I,524.170.5175

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they ar morkyn well j-now , PASTON,I,524.170.5176

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so is John Bylyngforthe and Thomas Playter , wher-for I am ryth
sory . PASTON,I,524.170.5177

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow let them haue wetyng ther-of , +tat the may puruey ther
excuse in hast so that the Kyng may haue knowlage why that they come
not to hym in ther one personys . PASTON,I,524.170.5178

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Let them come or send ther excuse to me in wrytyng ,
PASTON,I,524.170.5179

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schall puruey that the Kyng schall haue knowlage of ther excuse ;
PASTON,I,524.170.5180

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am well aqueyntyd wyth my Lord Hastyngys and my Lord Dakarys
whyche be now gretest a-bowt the Kyngys person , PASTON,I,524.170.5181

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also I am well aqweyntyd wyth the yonger Mortymer and Fererys ,
Hawte , Harpor , Crowmer , and Bosewell of the Kyngys howse .
PASTON,I,524.170.5182

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow let my grandam and my cosyn Cler haue knolage how that I
desyiryd yow to let hem haue knowlage of the tydyngys in thys letyr ,
PASTON,I,524.170.5183

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I promysyd for to send them tydyngys . PASTON,I,524.170.5184

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow let my modyr haue cnowelege howe +tat I and my $felawschep
{TEXT:felascep} and your seruauntys are at +te wrytyng of +tis lettyr
in good hell , blesyd be God . PASTON,I,524.170.5185

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow let my fadyr haue knowlage of thys lettyr and of the todyr
lettyr +tat I sent to my modyr by Felbryggys man , and how that I pray
bothe hym and my modyr lowly of her blyssyngys . PASTON,I,524.170.5186

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow that ye wole send me some lettyr how ye do , and of yowyr
tydyngys wyth yow , PASTON,I,524.170.5187

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thynk longe that I her no word fro my modyr and yow .
PASTON,I,524.170.5188

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow +tat thys byll may recomand me to my systyr Margery and to
my mastres Jone Gayne and to all god mastyrys and felawys wyth-in
Castyr . PASTON,I,524.170.5189

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent no lettyr to my fadyr neuyr syn I departyd fro yow ,
PASTON,I,524.170.5190

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I kowd get no man to London , and neuer sythe .
PASTON,I,524.170.5191

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow in cas ye spek wyth my cosyn Margaret Clere recomande me to
hyr ; PASTON,I,524.170.5192

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and All-mythy God haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,524.170.5193

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Newcastyll on Saterday next aftyr +te Consepsion of Owyr Lady
. PASTON,I,524.170.5194

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yowyr John Paston the yongest . PASTON,I,524.170.5195

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:18
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_170:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow let Rychard Call se thys lettyr . PASTON,I,524.170.5196

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_171> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,525>

{ED:321._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1464,_1_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ry+gte reuerent and worchepfull fadyr John Paston ,
dwellyng in Castyr , be thys delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,525.171.5197

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth reuerent and worchepfull fadyr , I recomand me on-to yow ,
besechyng yow lowly of youyr blyssyng , desyiryng to her of youyr
wellfar and prosperyte` , the whyche I pray God preserue on-to hys
plesans and to yowyr hertys desyir ; besechyng yow to haue me excusyd
+tat ye had no wrytyng fro me syth +tat I departyd frome $yow ,
PASTON,I,525.171.5198

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so God me helpe , I send yow a lettyr to London a-non aftyr
Kandylmas by a man $of my lordys PASTON,I,525.171.5199

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he for-gat to delyuer yt to yow , PASTON,I,525.171.5200

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so he browt to me the lettyr a-yen , PASTON,I,525.171.5201

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sythe +tat tyme I kowd get no messenger tyll now .
PASTON,I,525.171.5202

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for tydyngys , syche as we haue her I send yow .
PASTON,I,525.171.5203

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord and my lady ar in good hele , blyssyd be God ,
PASTON,I,525.171.5204

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my lord hathe gret labor and cost her in Walys for to tak dyuers
gentyll-menn her whyche wer consentyng and helpyng on-to +te Dwke of
Somersettys goyng ; PASTON,I,525.171.5205

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they wer apelyd of othyr $serteyn {TEXT:seteyn} poyntys of treson .
PASTON,I,525.171.5206

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thys mater , and by-cause the Kyng sent my lord woord to keep thys
contre` , is cause that my lord terythe her thus longe .
PASTON,I,525.171.5207

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now the Kyng hathe geue my lord power whedyr he wole do execussyon
vpon thes gentyllmen or pardon hem , whedyr that hym lyst ;
PASTON,I,525.171.5208

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as fertheforthe as I kan vndyrstand yet they schall haue grase .
PASTON,I,525.171.5209

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as sone as thes men be com in , my lord is porposyd to come to
London , whyche I supose schall be wyth-in thys fortnyth .
PASTON,I,525.171.5210

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The menys namys +tat he apechyd ar thes : John Hanmer and William hys
sone , Roger Pulyston and Edward of Madok . PASTON,I,525.171.5211

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
These be men of worchepe +tat schall come in . PASTON,I,525.171.5212

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The comonys in Lancasher and Chescher wer vp to the nombyr of a x m=l=
or mor , PASTON,I,525.171.5213

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now they be downe a-yen , PASTON,I,525.171.5214

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and on or ij of hem was hedyd in Chestyr as on Saterday last past .
PASTON,I,525.171.5215

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thomas Danyell is her in Chesscher , PASTON,I,525.171.5216

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I wot not in what plase . PASTON,I,525.171.5217

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hathe sent <P_I,526> iij or iiij letyrys to Syr John Howard syn my
lord come hedyr . PASTON,I,526.171.5218

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And othyr tydyngys her we none her but +tat I supose ye haue herd
be-for . PASTON,I,526.171.5219

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I supose veryly +tat it schall be so nye Estern er euer my lord come to
London +tat I schal not moue come home to yow be-for Estern , wher-for
I beseche yow +tat ye wole wychesaue that on of youyr men may send a
byll to myn oncyll Clement or to some othyr man , who +tat ye wole , in
youyr name , +tat they may delyuer me the mony tha {ED:t} I am be-hynd
of +tis quarter syne Crystmas , and for the next qwarter in parte of
+tat some +tat it plesyd yow to grant me by yer , PASTON,I,526.171.5220

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for by my trowthe the felawchep haue not so myche mony as we wend to
haue had be ryth myche , PASTON,I,526.171.5221

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my $lord {TEXT:lod} hathe had gret cost syn he cam hedyr ; wherfor
I beseche yow that I may haue +tis mony at Estern ,
PASTON,I,526.171.5222

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue borowyd mony +tat I must paye a-yen at Estern .
PASTON,I,526.171.5223

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray to All-myty God haue yow in kepyng . PASTON,I,526.171.5224

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in +te castyll of the Holte in Walys the fyrst day of Marche .
PASTON,I,526.171.5225

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_171:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youyr sone and lowly seruant John Paston +te yongest
PASTON,I,526.171.5226

<Q_PAS_A_1464?_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_172> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,526>

{ED:322._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_PROBABLY_1464,_2_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryth reuerent and worchepfull fadyr , I recomand me on-to yow ,
$besechyng yow lowly of youyr blyssyng . PASTON,I,526.172.5227

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesit yow to haue knowlage how +tat I haue be in Sowthefolk for syche
materys as my cosyn Dawbeney took my modyr a byll of towchyng the
materys be-twyx yow and Jenney , PASTON,I,526.172.5228

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and of all the jentylmen that ye wold my modyr schold send to for thys
mater ther ar no more at home bot John $Alyngton ;
PASTON,I,526.172.5229

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I schewyd hym the byll of the namys of the jnqwest ,
PASTON,I,526.172.5230

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and {ED:he}_NP-SBJ knew no more of hem all bot thes : John Depden ,
Thomas Wodborne , John Donemowe , Herry Chesten , and Adam Wrene .
PASTON,I,526.172.5231

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And to all them $Alyngton {TEXT:Alygton} sent a man of hys for to fele
<P_I,527> hem how they wer dysposyd . PASTON,I,527.172.5232

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys was the answer of John Depden and Thomas Wodborne :
PASTON,I,527.172.5233

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they seyd the last tyme they wer at London iche of ther costys stood
hem on x s. , PASTON,I,527.172.5234

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they seyd they wold no mor come at London bot if they knew who
schod pay for ther costys ; PASTON,I,527.172.5235

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bot me thowt by Alyngtonys man that they wold haue had a brybe of yow ,
be-syd +te paying for ther issuys , for to haue bedyn at home ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5236

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they haue non othyr leuyng but brybys . PASTON,I,527.172.5237

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for John Donemow and Herry Chesten , so that ther issuys may be payd
they wyll not come ther , PASTON,I,527.172.5238

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor in trowthe they schall not come ther ; wher-for $Alyngton prayith
yow +tat ther issuys may be payid . PASTON,I,527.172.5239

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Adam Wrene was not spok to , PASTON,I,527.172.5240

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is Jenneys baly or hys fermour . PASTON,I,527.172.5241

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the quest , they are not yet somonyd to aper ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5242

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and but if they be somonyd +ter schall non of hem all aper .
PASTON,I,527.172.5243

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The most part of the todyr dwell a-bowt Ippyswyche ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5244

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they be Debnamys tenauntys and Brewsys ; PASTON,I,527.172.5245

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I kowd get no man to spek wyth hem but if I schold haue spok wyth
hem myselue , PASTON,I,527.172.5246

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my spekyng wyth hem schold rather apeyryd the mater than a-mendyd
it . PASTON,I,527.172.5247

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I hyid me the faster home a-geyn PASTON,I,527.172.5248

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I lay at my cosyn Louedays on Corpus Cristi Day at nyth ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5249

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me that the Duches of Sofokys consell wold entre in-to
Calcot Hall , PASTON,I,527.172.5250

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they wold kep it tyll the Duches knew who schold be her tenaunt ,
owthyr ye or Debnam . PASTON,I,527.172.5251

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus told on of the men of the seyd cowncell to Loueday , whyche man
schold ryd thedyr wyth hem , PASTON,I,527.172.5252

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thys schold be do as to-morow at aftyr non ; PASTON,I,527.172.5253

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
bot I trow they wole but tak a distres for the seruys of the maner
whyche is dwe , PASTON,I,527.172.5254

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue sent word to Rysyng and to the tenauntys that they schold
dryue a-wey ther catell . PASTON,I,527.172.5255

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the maner , my brodyr and I schall kepe it so +tat they
schall not entyr as that daye , by the grase of God , nor aftyr nowthyr
and we may knowe of it , but if ye send vs othyr-wys word .
PASTON,I,527.172.5256

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the namys that ye wold haue for to pase vpon the mater betwyx
yow and Hogan , I spak to $Alyngton {TEXT:Alygton} and Loueday ther-of
, PASTON,I,527.172.5257

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Loueday seyd he knew non +tat wold pas vp-on ony jnquest for hym ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5258

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he medylyd wyth no syche men ; PASTON,I,527.172.5259

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Alyngton seyd that he kowd assyne me non men for serteyn , not tyll
he had spok wyth some , whyche he seyd wold aske gret leyser
PASTON,I,527.172.5260

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he knew bot fewe in Sofolk - PASTON,I,527.172.5261

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if it had be in Cambryge-schyre he kowd haue get yow j-nowe .
PASTON,I,527.172.5262

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr spak wyth old Banyard of Sibton Abbey for the same mater ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5263

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he knew non +tat wold pase vpon +te mater at his desyir ,
PASTON,I,527.172.5264

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he asygnyd dyuers men +tat loue not Jeney , whyche he kowd thynk
wold pase vpon it at yowr desyir if ye spak wyth hem youyrselue
PASTON,I,527.172.5265

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or at +te lest iche of hem kowd get yow ij or iij men that wold sey as
they wold in cas ye spak wyth hem youyr-selue , whoys namys I send yow
in a byll by Loueday . PASTON,I,527.172.5266

<P_I,528>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for +te gape at Nakton , Rychard Call seyth that it was a
thorn busche was leyd in wyth-owt a stake be-twyx ij thornys +tat grew
; PASTON,I,528.172.5267

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for Jeneys net , ther was not on lost her calfe that I can
jnquer of . PASTON,I,528.172.5268

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray God forther yow in all youyr materys to hys plesans and to
youyr hertys desyir . PASTON,I,528.172.5269

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn in hast at Hallysworthe the Saterday next aftyr Trinite` Sonday
. PASTON,I,528.172.5270

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My cosyn $Heuenyngham {TEXT:Heuenygham} is at London ,
PASTON,I,528.172.5271

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he kowd asygne yow men that wold sey as he wold , mor than Syr John
$Wyngfeld {TEXT:Wygfeld} , $Alyngton {TEXT:Alygton} , and all .
PASTON,I,528.172.5272

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:43?
LETTER:PASTON_172:M4:1464?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youyr sone and lowly seruant John Paston +te yongest
PASTON,I,528.172.5273

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_173> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_I,529>

{ED:324._TO_JOHN_PASTON_I_1465,_3_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryth reuerend and worchepfull fadyr John Paston be thys
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,529.173.5274

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all humbyll and most dwe recomendacion , as lowly as I can I
beseche yow of youyr blyssyng . PASTON,I,529.173.5275

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plesyt yow to haue knowlege +tat , as on Sonday next be-for Myhelmas
Day , as my modyr came fro London ward sche cam homward by Cotton ;
PASTON,I,529.173.5276

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sche sent for me to Heylysdon to come to hyr thedyr ,
PASTON,I,529.173.5277

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I haue ben in the plase euer sethyn . PASTON,I,529.173.5278

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as sone as Myhelmas Day was past I be-gane to dystreyne the
tenauntys PASTON,I,529.173.5279

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and gadryd some sylluyr , as myche I trowe as wyll pay for ouyr costys
, PASTON,I,529.173.5280

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yet I cepe here ryth a good felawschep , PASTON,I,529.173.5281

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and mor wer promysyd me whyche +tat came not to me , wherby I was ner
deseyuyd ; PASTON,I,529.173.5282

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for when Debnam herd sey how +tat I began to gadyr syluyr he reysyd
many men wyth-in j daye and an halfe , to +te nombyr of iij=c= men , as
I was credebly assartaynyd by a yeman of +te chambyr of my lordys that
connythe me good wyll , whech yeman , as <P_I,530> sone as he had sene
ther felauschep , rod streyth to my lord and jnformyd hym of it ;
PASTON,I,530.173.5283

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also he informyd my lord how +tat I had gadryd a-nothyr gret
felawschep , whyche felawschep he namyd more then we wer by j=c= and an
halfe and yett more . PASTON,I,530.173.5284

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And he seyd on-to my lord and my lady and to ther consell +tat wyth-owt
that my lord took a dyreccyon in the mater that ther wer leek to be do
gret harme on bothe ouyr pertyes , wheche wer a gret dysworchep to my
lord , consederyng how +tat he takyth vs bothe for hys men and so we be
knowyn well j-now ; vpon whyche jnformacion and dysworchep to my lord
+tat tweyn of hys men schold debat so ner hym , contrary to +te Kyngys
pese , consedryd of my lord and my lady and ther cownsell , my lord
sent for me and Syr Gylberd Debnam to come to hym to Framlyngham bothe
. PASTON,I,530.173.5285

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as it fortunyd well , my modyr come to me to Cotton not half an
owyr be-for +tat the mesenger cam to me fro my lord , wheche was late
vpon Twysday last past at nyth , PASTON,I,530.173.5286

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the next day on the mornyng I rod to my lord to Framlyngham ,
PASTON,I,530.173.5287

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so ded Syr Gylberd also . PASTON,I,530.173.5288

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as sone as we wer come we wer sent for to come to my lord ,
PASTON,I,530.173.5289

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and when we came to my lord he desiyryd of vs bothe +tat we schold
neythyr gadyr no felawschep , but syche men as we had gadryd +tat we
schold send hem home a-yen and +tat the coort schold be contenuyd in-to
the tyme +tat my lord , or syche as he wold asyngne , had spok bothe-4
wyth yow and Yeluerton and Jenney , and +tat on jndeferent man chosyn
by us bothe schold be assynyd to kep the plase in-to +te tyme +tat ye
and they wer spook wyth . PASTON,I,530.173.5290

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And then I $answered {TEXT:answed} my lord PASTON,I,530.173.5291

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and seyd how +tat at that tyme I had my mastyr wyth-in +te maner of
Cotton , whyche was my modyr , and in-to the tyme +tat I had spook wyth
hyr I cowd geue none answer ; PASTON,I,530.173.5292

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so my lord sent Rychard Fulmerston , berer her-of , to my modyr
thys day for an answer , whyche answer he schold bryng to my lord to
London , PASTON,I,530.173.5293

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for my lord rod to Londonward as yesterday , and +te soner be-cause he
trustyd to haue a good end of +tis mater and alle othyr be-twyx yow ,
whyche he takyth for a gret worchep to hym ward and a gret auantage
bothe and he cowd bryng +tis mater abowt ; PASTON,I,530.173.5294

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for then he wold trust to haue youyr seruyse alle , whyche wer to hym
gret tresour and auantage . PASTON,I,530.173.5295

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And +tis was the answer +tat my modyr and I gaue hym , +tat at +te
instans of my lord and my ladye we wold do +tus myche as for to put +te
coort in contenuans and no more to receyue of +te profytys of +te maner
than we had , and had dystresid for , tyll in-to +te tym that sche and
I had word ayen fro my lord and yow if so wer +tat +tey wold neythyr
mak entreys nor dystreyn the tenauntys nor cepe no coort more then we
wold do ; PASTON,I,530.173.5296

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and we told Rychard Fulmerston that thys my modyr and I ded at +te
jnstans and gret request of my lord because <P_I,531> my lord intendyd
pes , whyche resonably we wold not be ayenst , PASTON,I,531.173.5297

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yet we seyd we knew well +tat we schold haue no thank of yow when
ye knew of it wyth-owt it wer be-cause we ded it at my lordys jnstans .
PASTON,I,531.173.5298

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But be-for thys answer we had receyvyd as myche syluyr full nye as
Rychard Calle sent vs bokys of for to gadyr yt bye ,
PASTON,I,531.173.5299

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for +te possessyon of +te plase , we told hym +tat we wold kepe
it , PASTON,I,531.173.5300

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Syr Gylberd agreyd so that Yeluerton and Jeney wold do +te same ,
PASTON,I,531.173.5301

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for it was tyme for hym to sey so PASTON,I,531.173.5302

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for my lord told hym +tat he wold set hym fast by the feet ellys to be
suyr of hym +tat he schold make non jnsurreccions in-to +te tyme +tat
my lord came ayen fro London . PASTON,I,531.173.5303

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wene , and so dothe my modyr bothe , +tat thys appoyntment was mad in
good tyme , PASTON,I,531.173.5304

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I was deseyuyd of bettyr than an c men and an halfe +tat I had
promyse of to haue come to me when I sent for hem .
PASTON,I,531.173.5305

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thys promes had I be-for +tat I sent to yow the last lettyr the daye
aftyr Seynt Myhell . PASTON,I,531.173.5306

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Jenney herd sey ow +tat I cepyd Cotton , PASTON,I,531.173.5307

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he rod to Nacton PASTON,I,531.173.5308

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther held a cort PASTON,I,531.173.5309

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and receyuyd +te profytys of the maner . PASTON,I,531.173.5310

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow +tat I may haue knowlage in hast fro yow how ye wyll +tat
I be demenyd in thys mater and in all othyr , PASTON,I,531.173.5311

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I schall aplye me to fulfyll youyr intent in them to my power , by
the grace of God , whom I beseche haue yow in guydyng and sende yow
yowyr hertys desyir . PASTON,I,531.173.5312

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Hemnalle Halle in Cotton the Thursday next be-for Seynt
Feythe . PASTON,I,531.173.5313

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modyr recomandyth hyr to yow , PASTON,I,531.173.5314

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and preyith yow to hold hyr excusyd that sche wrytyth not to yow at
thys tyme PASTON,I,531.173.5315

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for sche may haue no leyser . PASTON,I,531.173.5316

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The berer her-of schall informe yow whedyr Jeney wyll agre` to thys
$appoyntment {TEXT:appoytment} or not . PASTON,I,531.173.5317

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I thynk he dar do non othyr wyse . PASTON,I,531.173.5318

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_173:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yowyr sone and lowly seruaunt John Paston PASTON,I,531.173.5319

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_174> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,533>

{ED:326._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1467,_7_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , it is so +tat thys Saterday John Rus sent me word by Robert
Botler +tat William Yeluerton hathe ben thys iij dayis in Yermothe for
to get new wytnessys vp to London , PASTON,I,533.174.5320

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it is thowt by the seyd John Rus and Robert Botler ther wytnessyng
is for to proue +tat it was Syr John F. wyll +tat ther schold be
morteysyd iij=c= mark by yer to +te colage , and also +tat syche astat
as my fadyr took her at Caster at Lames next be-for +tat Syr John F.
dyid was delyueryd to my fadyr to +te intent for to $perform
{TEXT:perfom} +te seyd wyll . PASTON,I,533.174.5321

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Bartholomew Elys , John Appylby , and John Clerk ar the wytnessys .
PASTON,I,533.174.5322

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for Bartholomew Elys , he is owtlawyd , PASTON,I,533.174.5323

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also men sey in Yermowthe +tat he is bawde be-twyx a clerk of
Yermowthe and hys owne wyfe . PASTON,I,533.174.5324

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as <P_I,534> for John Appylby , he is halff frentyk , and so take
in the towne , not wythstandyng he is an attorny , as Bartholomew Elys
is , in the baylys coort of Yermowthe . PASTON,I,534.174.5325

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for John Clerk of Gorleston , he is owtlawyd at Syr John
Fastolfys swte , and at dyuers othyr menys , not wythstandyng he is
thorow wyth Syr T. Howys for Syr J. F. , for thys cause +tat the seyd
clerk was on of Syr T. Howys last wytnessys be-for thys .
PASTON,I,534.174.5326

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I trow John Loer shall be a-nothyr wyttnesse . PASTON,I,534.174.5327

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for Bartholomew Elys and John Appylby , they lye thys nyht at
Blyborowgh onward on her wey to Londonward ; PASTON,I,534.174.5328

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
make good weche on hem . PASTON,I,534.174.5329

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow send vs some good tydyngys . PASTON,I,534.174.5330

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Saterday lat at nyght next aftyr Kandylmas Day .
PASTON,I,534.174.5331

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow remembyr John Grey and John Burgeys . PASTON,I,534.174.5332

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
We haue hom the most part of your barly saue fro Wynterton ,
PASTON,I,534.174.5333

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and +tat I trost to haue +tis next wek , PASTON,I,534.174.5334

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys we wyll scrat for it , by the grace of God , whom I beseche
mak yow good . PASTON,I,534.174.5335

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I thynk ther comyng vp is for to dysproue your wyttnessys +tat ye had
in-to the Chancery . PASTON,I,534.174.5336

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_174:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. PASTON,I,534.174.5337

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_175> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,534>

{ED:327._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1467,_APRIL}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , plesyth yow to weet +tat my modyr and I comonyd +tis day wyth
Freyr Mowght to vndyrstand what hys seying shall be in the coort when
he comyth vp to London , wheche is in +tis wyse . PASTON,I,534.175.5338

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He seyth at syche tyme as he had shreuyn Master Brakley and howsyllyd
hym bothe , he let hym wet that he was enformyd by dyuers personys that
the seyd Master Brakley owt for to be in gret consyens for syche
thyngys as he had doone and seyd , and causyd my fadyr , whom God
asoyle , for to do and seye allso , in prouyng of Syr John Fastolfys
wyll ; to whom the seyd Mastyr Brakley answerd thus agayne :
PASTON,I,534.175.5339

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
' I am ryght glad that it comyth to yow in mynd for to meue me wyth
thys mater in dyschargyng of my consyens ayenst God , '
PASTON,I,534.175.5340

<P_I,535>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
seying ferther-mor to the seyd Freyir Mowght , be the wey +tat {by}_P
hys sowle shold to , that the wyll +tat my fadyr put in to the coort
was as veryly Syr John Fastolfys wyll as it was trew that he shold onys
deye . PASTON,I,535.175.5341

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thys was seyd on the Sonday , when +te seyd Brakley wend to haue deyid
. PASTON,I,535.175.5342

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Then on the Monday he revyvyd a-yen PASTON,I,535.175.5343

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and was well amendyd tyll on the Wednysday . PASTON,I,535.175.5344

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And on the Wednysday he sekynd a-yen , supposyng to haue dyeyd
forthe-wyth ; PASTON,I,535.175.5345

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and in hys syknes he callyd Freyr Mowght , whyche was conffessor on-to
hym , of hys owne mosyon , seyng on-to hym in thys wyse :
PASTON,I,535.175.5346

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
' Syr , $wher as of your owne mosyon ye meuyd me the last day to tell
yow aftyr my consyens of Syr John Fastolfys wyll lyek wyse as I knew ,
and now of myn owne mocyon and in dyschargyng of my sowle , for I know
well +tat I may not askape but +tat I must dye in hast , wherfor I
desyir yow that {ED:ye}_NP-SBJ wyll report aftyr my dethe +tat I took
it vpon my sowle at my dying +tat that wyll +tat John Paston put in to
be prouyd was Syr John Fastolfys wyll . ' PASTON,I,535.175.5347

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the seyd Brakley dyid the same Wednysdaye . PASTON,I,535.175.5348

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And wher as ye wold haue had Rychard Calle to yow as on Sonday last
past , it was thys Twyisday or I had your lettyr ;
PASTON,I,535.175.5349

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wher as it plesyth yow for to wyshe me at Eltam at the tornay for
the good syth +tat was ther , by trowththe I had leuer se yow onys in
Caster Halle then to se as many kyngys tornay as myght be betwyx Eltam
and London . PASTON,I,535.175.5350

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , syr , wher as it lyekyth yow to desyir to haue knowlage how +tat
I haue don wyth +te Lady Boleyn , by my feythe I haue don nor spokyn
nowght in +tat mater , PASTON,I,535.175.5351

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor not wyll do tyll tyme +tat ye com hom , PASTON,I,535.175.5352

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye com not thys vij yer . PASTON,I,535.175.5353

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Not wythstandyng , +te Lady Boleyn was in Norwyche in the week aftyr
Estern , fro the Saterday tyll the Wednysday , and Heydons wyfe and
Mastras Alys bothe ; PASTON,I,535.175.5354

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I was at Caster PASTON,I,535.175.5355

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wyst not of it . PASTON,I,535.175.5356

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Hyr men seyd +tat she had non othyr erend to the towne but for to sport
hyr ; PASTON,I,535.175.5357

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
bot so God help me I supose +tat she wend I wold haue ben in Norwyche
for to haue sen hyr dowghtyr . PASTON,I,535.175.5358

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow wyth all my hart , hye yow hom , thow ye shold tery but a
day ; PASTON,I,535.175.5359

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I promyse yow your folk thynk +tat ye haue forgetyn hem ,
PASTON,I,535.175.5360

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the most part of them must depart at Whytsontyd at the ferthest ,
PASTON,I,535.175.5361

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
they wyll no lenger abyd . PASTON,I,535.175.5362

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your J. Paston PASTON,I,535.175.5363

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for R. Calle , we can not get half a quarter +te mony +tat we
pay for +te bare housold , besyd menys wagys . PASTON,I,535.175.5364

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:23
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_175:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Daube nor I may no mor wyth-owt coynage . PASTON,I,535.175.5365

<Q_PAS_A_1467?_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_176> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,536>

{ED:328._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_PERHAPS_1467,_ABOUT_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchepfull modyr , I recomand me on-to yow , lowly besechyng yow
of your blyssyng . PASTON,I,536.176.5366

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plesyt yow to $wet +tat my brodyr and I be in good hele , blyssyd be
God , and all ouyr felawshep ; PASTON,I,536.176.5367

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for me , I tryst to God to $se yow by Halowmes or wyth-in iiij
dayis aftyr at the ferthest , at whyche tyme I tryst to fynd +te menys
$to dyscharge yow of syche folk as ye kepe of my brodyrs .
PASTON,I,536.176.5368

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And +tat must I do by myn owne menys , PASTON,I,536.176.5369

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for as for my brodyr , by my trowthe he is not of power to do it ;
PASTON,I,536.176.5370

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for +tis I ensure yow , so God help me , he hathe at thys season not a
peny in hys purs nor wotys not wher to get eny . PASTON,I,536.176.5371

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for Bekham , I warant and ye wyll send the plate whyche ye and I
comond of for to helpe to paye hys dettys and for to swe forthe for hys
jwgement thys terme , it shall neythyr-2 be morgagyd nor sold . Wherfor
, modyr , I and he bothe beseche yow +tat ye wyll send hym the plate by
Jwde` , or ellys , so God help me , I wot not how he shall do ;
PASTON,I,536.176.5372

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by the feythe +tat I ow to God he lokyth euery day to be arestyd ,
PASTON,I,536.176.5373

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so I wene he shall , so God helpe me . PASTON,I,536.176.5374

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Jwde` had ned to be sped hastyly lest syche arestys falle in the tyme .
PASTON,I,536.176.5375

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for my lord of Norffolk , jt is promysyd me to haue hys good
lordshep , PASTON,I,536.176.5376

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I must tery a whylle , as my lady told yow , for the maners sake .
PASTON,I,536.176.5377

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for tydyngys her , so God help , neythyr the Kyng nor the lordys
can as yet vndyrstand no serteynte` whedyr they shall go to-gydyr a-yen
by the werre or not . PASTON,I,536.176.5378

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
When I here +te serteynte` I shall send yow word .
PASTON,I,536.176.5379

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye may send mony by Jwde` for my sustyr Annys hood and for +te tepet of
sersenet , viij s. a yerd of damask and v s. for sarsenet ;
PASTON,I,536.176.5380

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
hyr hood wyll take iij quarters . PASTON,I,536.176.5381

<P_I,537>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No mor for lak of leyser , PASTON,I,537.176.5382

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I pray God send you your hertys desyir and othyr pore folys thers .
PASTON,I,537.176.5383

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:23?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_176:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your sone and humbyll seruant J. Paston PASTON,I,537.176.5384

<Q_PAS_A_1468?_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_177> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,537>

{ED:329._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_PROBABLY_1468,_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my mastyr Syr John Paston , knyght , in Fletstret . </font>
PASTON,I,537.177.5385

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , &c. , jt is so that wyth-owght ye haue hasty reparacyon doon at
Caster ye be lyek to haue doubyll cost in hast , PASTON,I,537.177.5386

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for the reyn hathe so moystyd the wallys in many plasys that they may
not tylle the howsys tyll the wallys be reparyd , PASTON,I,537.177.5387

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys ye shall haue doubyll cost for to vntylle your howsys ayen at
syche tyme as ye shall amend the wallys ; PASTON,I,537.177.5388

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if it be not do thys yer many of the wallys wyll lye in the moot or
longe to . PASTON,I,537.177.5389

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ye knowe the febyllnesse of the vtter coort of old .
PASTON,I,537.177.5390

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Pampyng hathe had home to Caster as good as x=ml= tylle fro the
plase at Yermouthe , PASTON,I,537.177.5391

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and it wer pete` that the tyll wer lost , PASTON,I,537.177.5392

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the lenger +tat it lythe vnleyd the wers it wyll be .
PASTON,I,537.177.5393

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue thys day bespok as myche lyme as wyll serue for the tyll ,
wherfor I prey you remembyr the cost of the werkmanshep and puruey the
money by oo mean or othyr , what shefte so euyr ye make .
PASTON,I,537.177.5394

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And for your owne profyte remembyr to goo thorow wyth Hwghe of Fen ,
PASTON,I,537.177.5395

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe ye wyll ellys repent yow or owght longe ,
PASTON,I,537.177.5396

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for bothe ye shall loose hys good wyll and lett par auenture that
auantage that he myght do yow in your lond recoueryng , wher as he may
do yow harme and he wyll , and then to late wyse .
PASTON,I,537.177.5397

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that ye remembyr your relesys and gounys of my lord of Norffolk
er ye com hom . PASTON,I,537.177.5398

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I send yow by the berer herof a lettyr dyrect to yow that a man
of my lord of Oxenfortheys delyuerd me , whych lettyr comyth fro the
Kyng . PASTON,I,537.177.5399

<P_I,538>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that ye remembyr in eny wyse to serche for the fyne in syche
plasys as my modyr sent yow woord of in a lettyr ,
PASTON,I,538.177.5400

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for myn oncyll and my grauntdam report that they haue serchyd in all
plasys ther as it shold be , but they can not fynd no thyng of it .
PASTON,I,538.177.5401

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also that ye look whedyr the fyne was reryd to eny feoffeys mor then to
my grauntfadyr and my grauntdam and ther issu , PASTON,I,538.177.5402

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for and ther wer eny feoffeys namyd in the fyn it is the bettyr for yow
. PASTON,I,538.177.5403

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lady and my grantdam be com to London for the same mater , wherfor
it wer well do that the jwgys wer enformyd of your mater befor they
spak wyth theym . PASTON,I,538.177.5404

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow hye yow hom hastyly PASTON,I,538.177.5405

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and se your owne profyt your-sylf . PASTON,I,538.177.5406

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Pampyng and I shall clowt vp your howsys as we may wyth the money +tat
we haue tyll more com , PASTON,I,538.177.5407

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but ye shold do bettyr your-sylf . PASTON,I,538.177.5408

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey red thys byll onys on a day tyll ye haue sped thes maters wretyn
her-in . PASTON,I,538.177.5409

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thowe it be to your peyne to labore theym , remembyr your profyt .
PASTON,I,538.177.5410

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomor , &c. , but God kep yow thys Lent fro lollardy of fleshe .
PASTON,I,538.177.5411

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche the Twysday next aftyr that I depertyd fro yow .
PASTON,I,538.177.5412

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:24?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:26?
LETTER:PASTON_177:M4:1468?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. PASTON,I,538.177.5413

<Q_PAS_A_1468_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_178> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,538>

{ED:330._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1468,_8_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght reuerend and worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston ,
dwellyng at Caster , be thys delyueryd in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,538.178.5414

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryth reuerend and worchepfull modyr , I recomand me on-to you as
humbylly as I can thynk , desyiryng most hertly to her of youyr welfare
and hertys ese , whyche I pray God send yow as hastyly as eny hert can
thynk . PASTON,I,538.178.5415

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plesyt yow to wet +tat at the makyng of thys byll my brodyr and I and
all ouyr felawshep wer in good helle , blyssyd be God .
PASTON,I,538.178.5416

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for the gydyng her in thys contre` , it is as worchepfull as all the
world can deuyse it , PASTON,I,538.178.5417

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther wer neuer Englyshe-men had so good cher owt of Inglond that
euer I herd of . PASTON,I,538.178.5418

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys her , but if it be of the fest I can non send yow ,
sauyng +tat my Lady Margaret was maryd on Sonday last past at a towne
+tat is callyd The Dame , iij myle owt of Brugys , at v of the clok in
the mornyng . PASTON,I,538.178.5419

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And <P_I,539> sche was browt the same day to Bruggys to hyr dener ,
PASTON,I,539.178.5420

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther sche was receyuyd as worchepfully as all the world cowd deuyse
, as wyth presessyon wyth ladys and lordys best beseyn of eny pepyll
that euer I sye or herd of , PASTON,I,539.178.5421

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and many pagentys wer pleyid in hyr wey in Bryggys to hyr welcomyng ,
the best +tat euer I sye . PASTON,I,539.178.5422

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the same Sonday my lord the Bastard took vpon hym to answere xxiiij
knytys and gentylmen wyth-in viij dayis at jostys of pese ;
PASTON,I,539.178.5423

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and when +tat they wer answeryd they xxiiij and hym-selue schold torney
wyth othyr xxv the next day aftyr , whyche is on Monday next comyng .
PASTON,I,539.178.5424

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And they that haue jostyd wyth hym in-to thys day haue ben as rychely
beseyn , and hym-selue also , as clothe of gold and sylk and syluyr and
goldsmythys werk myght mak hem ; PASTON,I,539.178.5425

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for of syche ger , and gold and perle and stonys , they of the Dwkys
coort , neythyr gentylmen nor gentylwomen , they want non ,
PASTON,I,539.178.5426

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for wyth-owt +tat they haue it by wyshys , by my trowthe I herd neuyr
of so gret plente` as her is . PASTON,I,539.178.5427

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thys day my Lord Scalys justyd wyth a lord of thys contre` , but nat
wyth the Bastard , PASTON,I,539.178.5428

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for they mad promyse at London that non of them bothe shold neuer dele
wyth othyr in armys . PASTON,I,539.178.5429

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But the Bastard was on of the lordys +tat browt the Lord Scalys in-to
the feld , PASTON,I,539.178.5430

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and of mysfortwne an horse strake my lord Bastard on the lege ,
PASTON,I,539.178.5431

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hathe hurt hym so sore that I can thynk he $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
of no power to acomplyshe vp hys armys , PASTON,I,539.178.5432

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and that is gret pete` , PASTON,I,539.178.5433

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe I trow God mad neuer a mor worchepfull knyt .
PASTON,I,539.178.5434

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And $as $for {TEXT:asfor} the Dwkys coort , as of $lordys , ladys , and
gentylwomen , knytys , sqwyirs , and gentyllmen , I herd neuer of non
lyek to it saue Kyng Artourys cort . PASTON,I,539.178.5435

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
By my trowthe , I haue no wyt nor remembrans to wryte to yow halfe the
worchep that is her ; PASTON,I,539.178.5436

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but +tat lakyth , as it comyth to mynd I shall tell yow when I come
home , whyche I tryst to God $shall $not {TEXT:shalnot} be long to ;
PASTON,I,539.178.5437

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for we depert owt of Brygys homward on Twysday next comyng , and all
folk +tat cam wyth my lady of Burgoyn owt of Inglond , exept syche as
shall abyd her styll wyth hyr , whyche I wot well shall be but fewe .
PASTON,I,539.178.5438

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
We depert the soner for the Dwk hathe word that the Frenshe Kyng is
purposyd to mak wer vp-on hym hastyly , and that he is wyth-in iiij or
v dayis jorney of Brugys ; PASTON,I,539.178.5439

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the Dwk rydythe on Twysday next comyng forward to met wyth hym .
PASTON,I,539.178.5440

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God geue hym good sped , and all hys , PASTON,I,539.178.5441

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe they ar the goodlyest felawshep $that euer I cam
among , PASTON,I,539.178.5442

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and best can behaue them , and most lyek gentyllmen .
PASTON,I,539.178.5443

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Othyr tydyngys haue we non her , but that the Dwke of Somerset and all
hys bend depertyd welbeseyn owt of Brugys a day be-for that my lady the
Dwches cam thedyr ; PASTON,I,539.178.5444

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and they sey her that he is to Qwen Margaret +tat was , and shall no
mor come her a-yen nor be holpyn by the Dwk . PASTON,I,539.178.5445

<P_I,540>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No mor , but I beseche yow of youyr blyssyng as lowly as I can , whyche
I beseche yow forget not to geue me euery day onys .
PASTON,I,540.178.5446

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , modyr , I beseche yow +tat ye $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} good mastras
to my lytyll man , and to se +tat he go to scole .
PASTON,I,540.178.5447

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sent my cosyn Dawbeney v s. by Callys man for to bye for hym syche
ger as he nedyth . PASTON,I,540.178.5448

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , modyr , I pray yow thys byll may recomand me to my sustyrs bothe
, and to +te mastyr , my cosyn Dawbeney , Syr Jamys , Syr John Stylle ,
and to pray hym to be good mastyr to lytyll Jak and to lerne hym well ;
PASTON,I,540.178.5449

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I pray yow +tat thys byll may recomand me to all youyr folkys and
my well-wyllers . PASTON,I,540.178.5450

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I pray God send yow youyr hertys desyr . PASTON,I,540.178.5451

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Bruggys the Fryday next aftyr Seynt Thomas .
PASTON,I,540.178.5452

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:24
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_178:M4:1468:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your sone and humbyll seruaunt J. Paston +te yonger
PASTON,I,540.178.5453

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_179> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,543>

{ED:333._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
To begyn , God yeld yow for my hatys . PASTON,I,543.179.5454

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kyng hathe ben in thys contre` and worchepfully receyuyd in-to
Norwyche , PASTON,I,543.179.5455

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and had ryght good cher and gret gyftys in thys contre` , wherwythe he
holdyth hym so well content that he wyll hastyly be her agayn , and the
Qwen allso ; wyth whom , by my power auyse , ye shall com if so be that
the terme be do by +tat tym +tat she com in-to +tis contre` .
PASTON,I,543.179.5456

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for yowr maters her , so God help me , I haue don as myche as in
me was in laboryng of theym as well to my Lord Reuers as to my Lord
Scalys , Syr John Wydvyll , Thomas Wyngfeld , and othyr abowt the Kyng
. PASTON,I,543.179.5457

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for the Lord Reuers , he seyd to myn oncyll William , Fayirfax ,
and me that he shold meue the Kyng to spek to the two dwkys of Norffolk
and Suffolk that they shold leue of ther tytyls of syche lond as wer
Syr John Fastolffys , and if so be +tat they wold do nowt at the Kyngys
reqwest , +tat then the Kyng shold comand theym to do no wastys nor mak
non assawtys nor frayis vpon yowyr tenauntys nor plasys tyll syche tym
as the lawe hathe determynd wyth yow or ayenst yow .
PASTON,I,543.179.5458

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Tis was seyd by hym the sam day in the mornyng that he depertyd at
noon ; PASTON,I,543.179.5459

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
whedyr he meuyd the Kyng wyth it or nowt I can not seye .
PASTON,I,543.179.5460

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myn oncyll Wylliam thynkys naye , PASTON,I,543.179.5461

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the same aftyr-none <P_I,544> folowyng I told my Lord Scalys that I
had spokyn wyth my lord hys fadyr in lyek forme as I haue rehersyd ,
PASTON,I,544.179.5462

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and axyd hym whedyr that my lord hys fadyr had spokyn to the Kyng or
nowt ; PASTON,I,544.179.5463

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he gaue me thys answer , that whedyr he had spokyn to the Kyng or
nowt +tat the mater shold do well j-now . PASTON,I,544.179.5464

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Thomas $Wyngfeld {TEXT:Wygfeld} told me and swore on-to me that when
Brandon meuyd the Kyng and besowght hym to shew my lord fauour in hys
maters ayenst yow , that the Kyng seyd on-to hym a-yen , ' Brandon ,
thow thou can begyll the Dwk of Norffolk , and bryng hym abow {ED:t}
the thombe as thow lyst , I let the wet thow shalt not do me so ,
PASTON,I,544.179.5465

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I vndyrstand thy fals delyng well j-now . ' PASTON,I,544.179.5466

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And he seyd on-to hym more-ouer that if my lord of Norffolk left not of
hys hold of that mater that Brandon shold repent itt euery veyn in hys
hert ; PASTON,I,544.179.5467

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he told hym that he knew well j-now that he myght rewyll my lord of
Norffolk as he wold , PASTON,I,544.179.5468

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if my lord dyd enythyng that wer contrary to hys lawys , the Kyng
told hym he knew well j-now that it was by no bodys menys but by hys ;
PASTON,I,544.179.5469

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thus he depertyd fro the Kyng . PASTON,I,544.179.5470

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , as by wordys the Lord Scalys and Syr John Wydvyll tak tendyr
your maters mor then the Lord Reuers . PASTON,I,544.179.5471

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , Syr John Wydvyll told me when he was on horsbak at the Kyngys
depertyng that the Kyng had comandyd Brandon of purpose to ryd forthe
fro Norwyche to Lyne for to tak a conclusyon in your mater for yow ,
PASTON,I,544.179.5472

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he bad me +tat I shold cast no dowghtys but +tat ye shold haue your
entent ; PASTON,I,544.179.5473

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so dyd the Lord Scalys also . PASTON,I,544.179.5474

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And when +tat I preyd them at eny tyme to shew ther fauor to your mater
, they answerd that it was ther mater as well as your , consyderyng the
alyans betwyx yow . PASTON,I,544.179.5475

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Comon wyth Jakys Hawt , PASTON,I,544.179.5476

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he shall tell yow what langage was spokyn be-twen the Duk of
Suffolkys consell and hym and me . PASTON,I,544.179.5477

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It is to long to wryght , PASTON,I,544.179.5478

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I promyse yow ye ar be-hold to Jakys , PASTON,I,544.179.5479

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he sparyd not to spek . PASTON,I,544.179.5480

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , the Kyng rod thorow Heylysdon Waren $towardys {TEXT:towadys}
$Walsyngham {TEXT:Walsygham} , PASTON,I,544.179.5481

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Thomas Wyngfeld promysyd me that he wold $fynd the menys that my
lord of Glowsestyr , and hym-sylf bothe , shold shew the Kyng the loge
+tat was broke $down , and also +tat they wold tell hym of +te brekyng
down of +te plase . PASTON,I,544.179.5482

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Contrary to thys maters and all $the comfort that I had of my Lord
Scalys , Syr John Wydvyll , and Thomas $Wyngfeld {TEXT:Wygfeld} , myn
oncyll Wylliam seythe that +te Kyng told hym hys owne mowthe when he
had redyn forby the loge in Heylysdon Waren that he supposyd as well
+tat it myght falle downe by the self as be plukyd downe ,
PASTON,I,544.179.5483

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for if it had be plukyd down he seyd +tat we myght haue put in ouyr
byllys of it when hys <P_I,545> jugys sat on the oyeer determyner in
Norwyche , he beyng ther . PASTON,I,545.179.5484

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And then myn oncyll seythe how that he answerd the Kyng that ye trustyd
to hys good grace that he shold set yow thorow wyth bothe +te dwkys by
mene of trete` , PASTON,I,545.179.5485

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seyth +tat the Kyng answerd hym that he wold neythyr tret nor
spek for yow but for to let the lawe proced ; PASTON,I,545.179.5486

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so he seyth that they depertyd . PASTON,I,545.179.5487

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And by my trowthe , and my lord Tresorer encorage yow not more then he
dyd vs her , ye shall haue but esy help as on +tat party ; wherfor
labor your maters effectually , PASTON,I,545.179.5488

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe it is ned , PASTON,I,545.179.5489

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for , for all ther woordys of plesur , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
vndyrstand what ther labor in thys contre` hathe don good ; wherfor be
not ouyr swyft tyll ye be swyr of your lond , but labor sore +te lawe ,
PASTON,I,545.179.5490

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe tyll that be passyd wyth yow ye get but esy help , as
I can vndyrstand . PASTON,I,545.179.5491

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I had wyth me on day at dener in my modyrs plase , she beyng owt , the
Lord Scalys , Syr John Wydvyll , Syr John Haward , Nycolas Howard ,
John of Parr , Thomas Garnet , Fostwe Cheyny , Trussell +te knyghtys
son , Thomas Boleyn , qua propter , Brampton , Bernard , and Brom ,
Perse Howse , W. Tonstale , Lewes de Bretayll , and othyr ,
PASTON,I,545.179.5492

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and mad hem good cher so as they held them content .
PASTON,I,545.179.5493

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , my lord of Norffolk gaue Bernard , Broom , nor me no gownys at
thys seson , wherfor I awaytyd not on hym ; PASTON,I,545.179.5494

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
notwythstandyng I ofyrd my seruyse for +tat seson to my lady ,
PASTON,I,545.179.5495

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but it was refusyd , I wot by auyse . Wherfor I purpose no more to do
so . PASTON,I,545.179.5496

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for Bernard , Barney , Broom , and W. Calthorp ar sworn my lord of
Glowsetyrs men , PASTON,I,545.179.5497

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I stand yet at large not wythstandyng my Lord Scalys spak to me to
be wyth the Kyng ; PASTON,I,545.179.5498

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I mad no promes so to be , PASTON,I,545.179.5499

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I told hym +tat I was not woorthe a groote wyth-owt yow ,
PASTON,I,545.179.5500

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and therfor I wold mak no promes to no body tyll they had your good
wyll fyrst ; PASTON,I,545.179.5501

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so we depertyd . PASTON,I,545.179.5502

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It was told me +tat ther was owt a preue` seall for yow to attend vpon
the Kyng northeward , PASTON,I,545.179.5503

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if it be so I thynk veryly it is do to haue yow fro London be craft
, +tat ye shold not labor your maters to a conclusyon thys terme but
put them {ED:in} delaye . PASTON,I,545.179.5504

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow puruey yow on it to be at hom as sone as the terme is doone
, PASTON,I,545.179.5505

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for be God I take gret hurt for myn absence in dyuers plasys ;
PASTON,I,545.179.5506

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the most part of your men at Caster wyll deperte wythowt abod and
ye be not at hom wyth-in thys fortnyght . PASTON,I,545.179.5507

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_179:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow bryng hom poyntys and lasys of sylk for yow and me .
PASTON,I,545.179.5508

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_180> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,546>

{ED:334._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_ABOUT_25_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me on-to yow . PASTON,I,546.180.5509

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the serteynte` of the delyuerance of Caster , John Chapman
can tell yow how +tat we wer enforsyd therto as well as my-sylf .
PASTON,I,546.180.5510

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for John Chapman and hys iij felaws , I have purueyd that they be
payid iche of them xl s. , wyth the mony +tat they had of yow and
Dawbeney , PASTON,I,546.180.5511

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat is j-now for the seson that they haue don yow seruys .
PASTON,I,546.180.5512

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow geue them ther thank , PASTON,I,546.180.5513

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for by my trowthe they haue as well deseruyd it as eny men +tat euer
bare lyue ; PASTON,I,546.180.5514

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as for mony , ye ned not to geue hem wyth-owt ye wyll ,
PASTON,I,546.180.5515

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they be plesyd wyth ther wagys . PASTON,I,546.180.5516

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryttyll promysyd me to send yow the serteynte` of the apoyntment .
PASTON,I,546.180.5517

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We wer , for lak of vetayll , gonepoudyr , menys hertys , lak of
suerte` of rescwe , dreuyn ther-to to take apoyntement .
PASTON,I,546.180.5518

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye wyll +tat I come to yow , send me woord PASTON,I,546.180.5519

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall poruey me for to tery wyth yow a ij or iij dayis .
PASTON,I,546.180.5520

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By my trowthe , the rewardyng of syche folkys as hathe ben wyth me
dwryng the sege hathe putt me in gret danger for the monye .
PASTON,I,546.180.5521

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God preserue yow , PASTON,I,546.180.5522

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray yow be of good cher tyll I spek wyth yow ;
PASTON,I,546.180.5523

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trust to God to ese your hert in some thynggys .
PASTON,I,546.180.5524

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_180:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. Paston PASTON,I,546.180.5525

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_181> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,547>

{ED:335._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1469,_5_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my master Syr John Paston in Flettstret . </font>
PASTON,I,547.181.5526

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand {ED:me}_NP-OB1 on-to you , praying
yow that ye wyll in all hast send me word how +tat ye wyll +tat Syr
John Styll , John Pampyng , W. Mylsent , Nycolas Mondonet , T. Tomson
shall be rwlyd , and whedyr +tat they shall sek hem newe seruysys or
not , and Mathewe and Bedford also , PASTON,I,547.181.5527

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe be wyth me +tis seson PASTON,I,547.181.5528

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and is fro my modyr . PASTON,I,547.181.5529

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if so be +tat ye wyll haue thes to abyd wyth yow , or eny of them ,
send word whyche +tat they be ; PASTON,I,547.181.5530

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for be-twyx thys and Halowmas my modyr is agreyd that they shall haue
met and drynk of hyr for syche a serteyn wekly as my modyr and ye and I
can acord when we met . PASTON,I,547.181.5531

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Notwythstandyng , if ye kowd get Barney , or eny of thes seyd folkys
whyche +tat ye wyll not kepe , eny seruyse in the mene seson it wer
more worchep for yow then to put them from yow lyek masterles hondys ,
PASTON,I,547.181.5532

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe they ar as good menys bodys as eny leue , and
spescyally Syr John Stylle and John Pampyng . PASTON,I,547.181.5533

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I wer of power to kepe them , and all thes befor rehersyd , by
trowthe they shold neuer depert fro me whyll I leueyd .
PASTON,I,547.181.5534

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
If ye send me word that I shall come to yow to London for to comon wyth
yow of eny mater , so God help me I haue neythyr-2 mony to com vp wyth
nor for to tery wyth yow when I am ther but if ye send me some ;
PASTON,I,547.181.5535

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe thes werkys haue causyd me to ley owt for yow bettyr
then x or xij li. besyd +tat mony +tat I had of my modyr , whyche is
abowt an viij li . PASTON,I,547.181.5536

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God amend defawtys , PASTON,I,547.181.5537

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but +tis I warant yow , wyth-owt +tat it be Mathew whyche ye sent woord
by John Thressher that ye wold haue to awayt on yow , ther is no man
+tat was hyryd for the tyme of thys sege that wyll axe yow a peny .
PASTON,I,547.181.5538

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I pray yow send downe a comandment to Stutvylle or to some awdytor
to take acomptys of Dawbneys byllys , PASTON,I,547.181.5539

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for hys executors ar sore callyd vpon for to admynyster by +te Byshop ,
PASTON,I,547.181.5540

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys he seythe that he wyll seqwester . PASTON,I,547.181.5541

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Dawbeney set in hys dettys that ye owt hym xij li. and x s .
PASTON,I,547.181.5542

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Whedyr it be so or nowt hys byllys of hys owne hand wyll not lye ,
PASTON,I,547.181.5543

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he mad hys byllys clere or then the sege cam abowt vs .
PASTON,I,547.181.5544

<P_I,548>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for the euydence of Bekham , my modyr sent to Calle for hem
PASTON,I,548.181.5545

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he sent hyr woord that he wold make hys acomptys and delyuer the
euydence and all to-gedyr . PASTON,I,548.181.5546

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modyr hathe sent to hym ayen for hem thys day .
PASTON,I,548.181.5547

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
If she sped they shall be sent to yow in all hast ,
PASTON,I,548.181.5548

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys and ye send for me I shall bryng hem wyth me .
PASTON,I,548.181.5549

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Send my modyr and me word who ye wyll +tat haue the rwyll of your
lyuelod her in thys contre` , and in what forme +tat it shall be delt
wyth . PASTON,I,548.181.5550

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wyll not make me mastyrfast wyth my lord of Norffolk nor wyth non
othyr tyll I spek wyth yow ; PASTON,I,548.181.5551

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ye thynk it be to be don , get me a mastyr . PASTON,I,548.181.5552

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Dell corteysly wyth the Qwen and +tat felawshep , and wyth Mastras Anne
Hawte for wappys tyll I spek wyth yow . PASTON,I,548.181.5553

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn on Seynt Feythys Euyn . PASTON,I,548.181.5554

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. Paston PASTON,I,548.181.5555

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow in all hast possybyll send me answer of euery thyng in thys
bylle , PASTON,I,548.181.5556

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for it reqweryth hast . PASTON,I,548.181.5557

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modyr had answer fro Calle er I had wret thys byll ,
PASTON,I,548.181.5558

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Call seyth so +tat he may haue swerte` to saue hym harmeles for the
anuyte` that he standyth bownd for , and for the oder mony +tat he is
suerte` to pay for Maryot <paren> I trow it be xv or xvj li. </paren>
he wyll delyuer the euydense , or ellys not . PASTON,I,548.181.5559

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He wyll not haue yow bownd , PASTON,I,548.181.5560

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for me I had leuer he wer hangyd then to be bond to hym .
PASTON,I,548.181.5561

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Send me word how thys mater shall be handyld , PASTON,I,548.181.5562

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also I pray yow send me tydyng of the Kyng and the lordys , and of
your master , how he is in fauor and ye wyth hym .
PASTON,I,548.181.5563

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
By Sent George , I and my felawshep stand in fer of my lord of
Norffolkys men , PASTON,I,548.181.5564

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for we be thret sore , not wythstandyng the saue gardys +tat my
felawshep haue . PASTON,I,548.181.5565

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for me , I haue non , nor non of your howsold men ,
PASTON,I,548.181.5566

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor non wyll haue ; PASTON,I,548.181.5567

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_181:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
it wer shame to take it . PASTON,I,548.181.5568

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_182> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,551>

{ED:338._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1470,_23_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepfull brodyr Syr John Paston , knyght , be
thys delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,551.182.5569

<P_I,552>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to yow in my best wyse .
PASTON,I,552.182.5570

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Lyekyth=1 it yow to wet that , acordyng to yowyr desyir in dyuers of
your lettyrs sent on-to me , I haue spook wyth Heydon for the deed of
Bekham whyche he hathe ; PASTON,I,552.182.5571

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he answeryth me that John Maryot owyth hym xxx li. ,
PASTON,I,552.182.5572

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and at syche tym as he is payid of that mony he seyth he is redy to
delyuer the deed , PASTON,I,552.182.5573

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in-to syche tyme as he be payid of +tat monye he wyll no deed
delyuer to no man . PASTON,I,552.182.5574

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue spook wyth Storour , the vndyrsheryff of Norffolk ,
PASTON,I,552.182.5575

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and am acordyd wyth hym for all maner of proses a-yenst yow or eny of
your seruauntys tyll the next proses com owt , sauyng for a fieri
facias is awardyd owt of the Chekyr vp-on your londys of lviij s.
whyche is geuyn to the Blak Freyrs of Oxenforthe .
PASTON,I,552.182.5576

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that haue I fownd swerte` PASTON,I,552.182.5577

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and am bownd to hym in v mark that he shall be payid by viij dayis
aftyr Kandyllmas . PASTON,I,552.182.5578

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye must tak good heed that ye and your meen may be in swerte`
wyth-owt arest for the forsybyll entre` thys terme er eny more proses
com owt ayenst yow or them , PASTON,I,552.182.5579

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys they that $be in thys contre` ar lyek to be trowblyd hastyly .
PASTON,I,552.182.5580

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , yerstyrday W. Gornay entryd in-to Saxthorp ,
PASTON,I,552.182.5581

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther was he $kepyng of a coort , PASTON,I,552.182.5582

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and had the tenauntys attornyd to hym . PASTON,I,552.182.5583

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But er the coort was all doon I cam thedyr , wyth a man wyth me and no
more , PASTON,I,552.182.5584

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther be-for hym and all hys felawchep , Gayne , Bomsted , Hoppys ,
and iij or iiij mor , I chargyd the tenauntys that they shold proced no
ferther in ther coort vp-on peyn +tat myght falle of it ;
PASTON,I,552.182.5585

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they lettyd for a season , PASTON,I,552.182.5586

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but they sye that I was not abyll to make my pertye good ,
PASTON,I,552.182.5587

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they prosedyd forthe . PASTON,I,552.182.5588

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I sye that , PASTON,I,552.182.5589

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and set me downe by the stward PASTON,I,552.182.5590

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and blottyd hys book wyth my fyngyr as he wrot , so that all the
tenauntys afermyd that the coort was enterupte by me as in yowyr ryght
; PASTON,I,552.182.5591

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I reqweryd them to record that ther was no pesybyll coort kepet ,
PASTON,I,552.182.5592

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they seyd they wold . PASTON,I,552.182.5593

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
W. Gornay and I dynyd to-gedyr the same daye , PASTON,I,552.182.5594

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he told me that he had spokyn to yow of the same mater .
PASTON,I,552.182.5595

<P_I,553>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye must take hed PASTON,I,553.182.5596

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for on Reed swyth dyuers of +te tenauntys of Gwton for ocupying of
serteyn londys in Gwton callyd Bullys londys , PASTON,I,553.182.5597

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hathe them at an exigent at thys terme , so +tat the seyd
tenauntys dar not paye yow nor ocupye non of the seyd londys ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5598

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they wer letyn for xxx s. be yer and more , and serteyn barly .
PASTON,I,553.182.5599

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the person of Heynforth is swyd by W. Yeluerton ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5600

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is at an exygent also for viij li. whyche he payid to Rychard Calle
. PASTON,I,553.182.5601

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye must se that he be sauyd harmles , bothe-1 for consyens and shame .
PASTON,I,553.182.5602

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue thys day delyueryd your mantyll , your raye gowne , and
your crosbowys wyth telers and wyndas , and your Normandy byll to Korby
to bryng wyth hym to London . PASTON,I,553.182.5603

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , in eny wyse , and ye can , axe the probate of my fadyrs wyll to
be geuyn yow wyth the bargayn +tat ye make wyth my lord of Canterbery ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5604

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I can thynk that ye may haue it ; PASTON,I,553.182.5605

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as soone as it is prouyd ye or I may haue a lettyr of mynystracyon
vp-on the same and a qwetance of my lord Cardnalle euyn foorthe-wyth ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5606

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thys wer on of the best bargaynys that ye mad thys ij yer , I
enswyr yow . PASTON,I,553.182.5607

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And he may make yow a qwetance , or get yow on of the Bysheop of
Wynchestyr , for Syr John Fastolfys goodys also ; PASTON,I,553.182.5608

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in my reson thys wer lyght to be browght a-bowght wyth the same
bargayn . PASTON,I,553.182.5609

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ye purpose to bargayn wyth hym ye had need to hye yow ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5610

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is told me that my lord of Norffolk wyl entyr in-to it hastyly ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5611

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he so doo it is the wers for yow , PASTON,I,553.182.5612

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wyll cawse them to profyr the lesse syluyr .
PASTON,I,553.182.5613

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I pray yow send me some secret tydyngys of the lyklyod of the
world by the next messenger that comyth betwen , that I may be eythyr
myryer or ellys mor sory then I am , and also +tat I may gwyd me
ther-aftyr . PASTON,I,553.182.5614

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for Syr R. Wyngfeld , I can get no x li. of hym ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5615

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he seyth +tat I shall haue the fayirest harneys thatt I can bye in
London for syluyr ; PASTON,I,553.182.5616

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but mony can I non get . PASTON,I,553.182.5617

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I can not yet make my pesse wyth my lord of Norffolk nor my lady by no
meane , PASTON,I,553.182.5618

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yet euery man tellyth me that my lady seyth $passyngly {TEXT:passygly}
well of me allweys . PASTON,I,553.182.5619

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwythstandyng I trowe +tat they wyll swe the apell thys term ,
PASTON,I,553.182.5620

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yet ther is no man of vs jndytyd but if it wer doon afor the crowners
or then we cam owte of +te plase . PASTON,I,553.182.5621

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther is now but iij men in it , and the bryggys alwey drawyn .
PASTON,I,553.182.5622

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No mor , but God lant yow , myn her . PASTON,I,553.182.5623

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the Twysday nex aftyr Seynt Agnet +te fyrst .
PASTON,I,553.182.5624

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys day $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} Reed , sowter of Norwyche , sone and
heyir to Red that swyth your tenauntys at Gwton , cam to Gwton
PASTON,I,553.182.5625

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as to-morow he purposeyth to entre Bullys londys ;
PASTON,I,553.182.5626

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I wyll lett hym and I can , PASTON,I,553.182.5627

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I tryst <P_I,554> to God , who preserue yow . PASTON,I,554.182.5628

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And need be I com to yow , or ellys nowt ; PASTON,I,554.182.5629

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all the lordys com {ED:to} London I pray yow recomand
{ED:me}_NP-OB1 to John Leuenthorp and Penne and all good felaws .
PASTON,I,554.182.5630

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_182:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Send tydyngys in hast , I pray yow . PASTON,I,554.182.5631

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_183> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,556>

{ED:340._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1470,_14_MAY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To mastyr Syr John Paston , knyght , in hast . </font>
PASTON,I,556.183.5632

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I recomand me to yow , &c . PASTON,I,556.183.5633

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
W. Gorney and I ar apoyntyd that ther shall no mony be takyn at
Saxthorp tyll thys terme be past , PASTON,I,556.183.5634

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hathe promysyd me to spek wyth yow and your consell and +tat ye
shall tak a wey be-twyx yow so +tat ye shall be bothe plesyd .
PASTON,I,556.183.5635

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He had warnyd a coort at Saxthorp to haue be kep vpon Holy Rood Day
last past , PASTON,I,556.183.5636

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther he wold haue gadyrd the half yer ferm ; PASTON,I,556.183.5637

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it fortunyd me to be ther er the coort was half don ,
PASTON,I,556.183.5638

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I took syche a wey wyth hym that the qwest gaue no verdyt ,
PASTON,I,556.183.5639

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ner they procedyd no ferther in ther cort PASTON,I,556.183.5640

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor gadyrd no mony ther , PASTON,I,556.183.5641

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor not shall do tyll syche tym as ye spek to-gedyr and ye be at
<P_I,557> London thys term . PASTON,I,557.183.5642

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But and ye be not at London I wold auyse yow to let Townysend tak a wey
wyth hym , PASTON,I,557.183.5643

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it lyeth not in my power to keep werr wyth hym ;
PASTON,I,557.183.5644

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for and I had not delt ryght corteysly vp-on Holy Rood Day I had drownk
to myn oystyrs , PASTON,I,557.183.5645

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for yowng Heydon had reysyd as many men as he kowd mak in harneys to
haue holp Gornay , PASTON,I,557.183.5646

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but when Heydon sye +tat we delt so corteysly as we ded he wythdrew hys
men PASTON,I,557.183.5647

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and mad hem to go hom a-yen . PASTON,I,557.183.5648

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not wyth-standyng they wer redy and ned had be , PASTON,I,557.183.5649

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also my lord of Norffolkys men wyll be wyth hym ayenst me , I wot
well as yet , tyl bettyr pesse be . PASTON,I,557.183.5650

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for myn ownkyll William , I haue spook wyth hym
PASTON,I,557.183.5651

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth +tat he wyll make a byll in all hast of iche percell
be-twyxt yow , and send yow word in wryghtyng how that he wooll deell
wyth yow ; PASTON,I,557.183.5652

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I can not se +tat he besyth hym a-bowght it not wythstandyng I call
vpon hym dayly for it . PASTON,I,557.183.5653

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for mony , I can non get neythyr at Snaylewell nor at Sporle tyll
Mydsomer , thow I wold dryue all the catell they haue .
PASTON,I,557.183.5654

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was bond to the shreuys for grenwax and for a fyeri facias +tat is
awardyd owt of yowyr lond wyche drawyth in all bettyr than v mark ,
PASTON,I,557.183.5655

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I am fayn to borow the mony to pay it , by +tat Lord I beleue on ,
PASTON,I,557.183.5656

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I cowd not gadyr a nobyll of areragys syn I was wyth yow at London
of all the lyuelod ye haue . PASTON,I,557.183.5657

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for John Maryot , he is payid of hys anuyte` in-to a nobyll or x s.
at the most PASTON,I,557.183.5658

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but , as for all hys dettors , I can not pay hem tyll I can gadyr more
mony , so God help me . PASTON,I,557.183.5659

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow send a byll to John Pampyng that he may ryed wyth me ouyr
all your lyuelood and take a cler reknyng what is owyng and what +tat I
haue receyuyd , that ye may haue a cler reknyng of all that ye owe in
thys contre` and what your tenauntys owe yow . PASTON,I,557.183.5660

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I pray yow send me woord as hastyly as ye can how the world
goothe . PASTON,I,557.183.5661

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more , but God lant yow , lansman ; PASTON,I,557.183.5662

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and rather then to stand in dowght remembyr what peyn it is a man to
loose lyberte` . PASTON,I,557.183.5663

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Flet is a fayir preson , PASTON,I,557.183.5664

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but ye had but smale lyberte` ther-in , PASTON,I,557.183.5665

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye must nedys aper when ye wer callyd . PASTON,I,557.183.5666

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I haue fownd Jamys Greshamys oblygacyon . PASTON,I,557.183.5667

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , he comyth to London ward thys day . PASTON,I,557.183.5668

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn +te xiiij day of Maye . PASTON,I,557.183.5669

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_183:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. PASTON,I,557.183.5670

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_184> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,563>

{ED:345._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1470,_12_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepful modyr Margaret Paston by thys delyuerd .
</font> PASTON,I,563.184.5671

<P_I,564>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Aftyr humbyll and most dew recomendacyon , as lowly as I can I beseche
yow of your blyssyng . PASTON,I,564.184.5672

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Plesyt yow to wet +tat , blyssyd be God , my brodyr and I be in good
hele PASTON,I,564.184.5673

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I tryst that we shall do ryght well in all owyr maters hastyly ,
PASTON,I,564.184.5674

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my lady of Norffolk hathe promysyd to be rewlyd by my lord of
Oxynforthe in all syche maters as belonge to my brodyr and to me .
PASTON,I,564.184.5675

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my lord of Oxynforth , he is bettyr lord to me , by my
trowthe , then I can wyshe hym in many maters , PASTON,I,564.184.5676

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he sent to my lady of Norffolk by John Bernard only for my mater
and for non othyr cawse , myn onwetyng or wythowt eny preyer of me ,
PASTON,I,564.184.5677

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for when he sent to hyr I was at London and he at Colchestyr ,
PASTON,I,564.184.5678

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat is a lyeklyod he remembyrthe me . PASTON,I,564.184.5679

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Dwk and the Dwchess swe to hym as humbylly as euyr I dyd to them ,
in so myche that my lord of Oxynforth shall haue the rwyll of them and
thers by ther owne desyirs and gret meanys . PASTON,I,564.184.5680

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the ofyceys that ye wrot to my brodyr for , and to me , they be
for no poore men ; PASTON,I,564.184.5681

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I tryst we shall sped of othyr ofyseys metly for vs ,
PASTON,I,564.184.5682

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my mastyr the Erle of Oxynforthe bydyth me axe and haue .
PASTON,I,564.184.5683

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trow my brodyr Syr John shall haue the constabyllshep of Norwyche
Castyll wyth xx li. of fee ; PASTON,I,564.184.5684

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all the lordys be agreyd to it . PASTON,I,564.184.5685

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tydyngys , the Erle of Wyrcestyr is lyek to dye +tis day , or to-morow
at the ferthest . PASTON,I,564.184.5686

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Pylkyngton , Mastyr W. Attclyff , and Fowler ar takyn and in the
castyll of Pomfrett , PASTON,I,564.184.5687

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ar lyek to dye hastyly , wyth-owte +tey be ded .
PASTON,I,564.184.5688

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr T. Mongomere` and Jon Done be takyn ; PASTON,I,564.184.5689

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
what shall falle of hem I can not sey . PASTON,I,564.184.5690

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The qwen +tat was and the Dwchesse of Bedford be in seyntuary at
Westmestyr . PASTON,I,564.184.5691

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Bysheop of Ely wyth othyr bisheopys ar in Seynt Martyns .
PASTON,I,564.184.5692

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When I here more I shall send yow more . PASTON,I,564.184.5693

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey God send yow all your desyirs . PASTON,I,564.184.5694

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London on Seynt Edwardys Euyn . PASTON,I,564.184.5695

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your sone and humbyll seruaunt J. P. PASTON,I,564.184.5696

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Modyr , I beseche yow +tat Brome may be spokyn to to gadyr vp my
sylluyr at Gwton in all hast possybyll , PASTON,I,564.184.5697

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue no mony . PASTON,I,564.184.5698

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also +tat it lyek yow +tat John Mylsent may be spokyn to to kep well my
grey horse and he be a-lyue , and +tat he spare no met on hym and +tat
he haue konnyng lechys to look to hym . PASTON,I,564.184.5699

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for my comyng hom I knowe no serteynte` , PASTON,I,564.184.5700

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I terry tyll my lady of Norffolk com to go thorow wyth tho maters ,
PASTON,I,564.184.5701

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:26
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_184:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $she shall not be here tyll Sonday . PASTON,I,564.184.5702

<Q_PAS_A_1471_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_185> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,565>

{ED:346._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1471,_30_APRIL}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr humbyll and most dew recomendacyon , jn as humbyll wyse as {in}_P
I can I beseche yow of your blyssyng , preying God to reward yow wyth
as myche plesyer and hertys ease as I haue latward causyd you to haue
trowbyll and thowght . PASTON,I,565.185.5703

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And wyth Godys grace it shall not be longe to or then my wrongys and
othyr menys shall be redressyd , PASTON,I,565.185.5704

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for the world was neuyr so lyek to be owyrs as it is now ; werfor I
prey yow let Lomnor $not be to besy as yet . PASTON,I,565.185.5705

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Modyr , I beseche yow , and ye may spare eny money , +tat ye wyll do
your almesse on me and send me some in as hasty wyse as {in}_P is
possybyll , PASTON,I,565.185.5706

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for by my trowthe my lechecrafte and fesyk , and rewardys to them that
haue kept me and condyt me to London , hathe cost me sythe Estern Day
more then v li . PASTON,I,565.185.5707

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And now I haue neythyr met , drink , clothys , lechecraft , nor money
but vp-on borowyng , PASTON,I,565.185.5708

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I haue asayid my frendys so ferre that they be-gyn to fayle now in
my gretest ned that euyr I was in . PASTON,I,565.185.5709

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , modyr , I beseche yow , and my horse +tat was at lechecraft at
the Holt be not takyn vp for the Kyngys hawkys , that he may be had hom
and kept in your plase , and not to go owght to watyr nor no whedyr
ellys , but that the gat be shet and he to be chasyd aftyr watyr
wyth-in your plase , and that he haue as myche met as he may ete .
PASTON,I,565.185.5710

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue hey j-now of myn owne , PASTON,I,565.185.5711

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for otys , Dollys wyll puruey for hym , PASTON,I,565.185.5712

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or who that dothe it I wyll paye . PASTON,I,565.185.5713

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I beseche yow +tat he haue euery wek iij boshell of otys , and
euery day a peny worthe of bred . PASTON,I,565.185.5714

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if Boton be not at Norwyche and Syme kep hym I shall geue hym well
for hys labore . PASTON,I,565.185.5715

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also +tat Phelypp Loueday put the othyr horse to gresse ther as he and
I wer acordyd . PASTON,I,565.185.5716

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that Boton send me hyddyr the two shyrtys that wer in my casket
, and +tat he send me hydyr xl s. by the next messenger +tat comyth to
London . PASTON,I,565.185.5717

<P_I,566>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that Mastress Broom send me hedyr iij longe gownys and ij
doblettys , and a jaket of plonket chamlett , and a morey bonet owt of
my cofyr - Syr Jamys hathe the key - as I sent hyr word be-for thys .
PASTON,I,566.185.5718

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that syche othyr wryghtyngys and stuff as was in my kasket be in
your kepyng , and +tat no body look my wryghtyngys .
PASTON,I,566.185.5719

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , that the horse +tat Purdy hathe of myne be put to some good
gresse in hast . PASTON,I,566.185.5720

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if it plese yow to haue knowlage of ouyr royall person , I thank
God I am hole of my syknesse , PASTON,I,566.185.5721

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and trust to be clene hole of all my hurttys wythin a seuennyght at the
ferthest , by wyche tym I trust to haue othyr tydyngys .
PASTON,I,566.185.5722

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And those tydyngys onys had , I tryst not to be longe owght of Norffolk
, wyth Godys grace , whom I beseche preserue yow and your for my part .
PASTON,I,566.185.5723

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn +te last day of Apryll . PASTON,I,566.185.5724

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The berer her-of can tell you tydyngys syche as be trew for very
serteyn . PASTON,I,566.185.5725

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_185:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your humbylest seruaunt J. of Gelston PASTON,I,566.185.5726

<Q_PAS_A_1471_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_186> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,566>

{ED:347._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1471,_5_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Most worchepfull and my ryght specyall good modyr , as humbylly as I
can I recomand me on-to yow , besechyng yow of youyr blyssyng .
PASTON,I,566.186.5727

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please it yow to vndyrstand that thys day I spake wyth Bacheler Water ,
whyche let me haue vndyrstandyng of your welfare , wherof I thank God
wyth all my hert . PASTON,I,566.186.5728

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also he leet me haue knowlage that the Lord Scalys had grauntyd yow to
be my good lord , wherof I am no-thyng prowd PASTON,I,566.186.5729

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he may do leest wyth the gret mastyr , PASTON,I,566.186.5730

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he wold depert ouyr the see as hastyly as he may .
PASTON,I,566.186.5731

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And because he wenyth that I wold go wyth hym , as I had promyseyd hym
euyr and he had kept foorthe hys jornay at that tyme , thys is the
cause that he wyll be my good lord and help to get my pardon .
PASTON,I,566.186.5732

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The Kyng is not best pleaseyd wyth hym for that he desyerthe to depert
, jn so myche that <P_I,567> the Kyng hathe seyd of hym that wen so
euyr he hathe most to do , then the Lord Scalys wyll sonest axe leue to
depert , PASTON,I,567.186.5733

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and weenyth that it is most be-cause of kowardyese .
PASTON,I,567.186.5734

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for perdon , I can non get wyth-owght I shold paye to myche money
for it , PASTON,I,567.186.5735

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I am not so purueyd . PASTON,I,567.186.5736

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for Herry Hallman , my brodyr wyll axe hym no syluyr tyll ye be
payeyd ; PASTON,I,567.186.5737

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
therfor ye may send to hym and haue it . PASTON,I,567.186.5738

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , I am sory that ye haue fadyrd my hors +tat was at Caster to be
my brodyr Edmundys , PASTON,I,567.186.5739

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I had leueer +tat they had hym styll then owght ellys ; wherfor
thow they profyr hym yow fro hense foorthe , let not my brodyr Edmund
take hym but let hym sey , whedyr they wyll let hym haue hym or not ,
that I haue promyseyd my brodyr Edmund a bettyr hors for hym so that he
wyll not cleyme the same for hys . PASTON,I,567.186.5740

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngys , her be non but +tat the Scottys and Walyshe men be
besy . PASTON,I,567.186.5741

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
What they meane I can not seye . PASTON,I,567.186.5742

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My cosyn John Loueday can tell yow and ther be eny odyr flyeyng talys ,
PASTON,I,567.186.5743

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe walkyd in London , PASTON,I,567.186.5744

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so do not I . PASTON,I,567.186.5745

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
When I may I wyll com hom , wyth Godys grace , whom I beseche to send
you your hertys desyeyr . PASTON,I,567.186.5746

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_186:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the v daye of Julle . By your humblest sone and seruaunt J. P.
PASTON,I,567.186.5747

<Q_PAS_A_1471_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_187> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,567>

{ED:348._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1471,_22_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my most worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston be thys delyueryd
in hast . </font> PASTON,I,567.187.5748

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshepfull modyr , I recomand me to yow , PASTON,I,567.187.5749

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as lowly as I can I beseche yow of your blyssyng .
PASTON,I,567.187.5750

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Please yow to vndyrstand that thys Wednysday Syr Thomas Wyngffeld sent
to me and let me wet that the Kyng had syngnyd my bylle of perdon ,
whyche the seyd Syr Thomas delyueryd me ; PASTON,I,567.187.5751

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so by Fryday at the forthest I tryst to haue my perdon ensealyd by
the Chanceler . PASTON,I,567.187.5752

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And soone aftyr so as I can fornyshe me I tryst to se yow , if so be
that eny of the Kyngys hows com in-to Norwyche . PASTON,I,567.187.5753

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold fayne my gray horse wer kept in mewe for gnattys .
PASTON,I,567.187.5754

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , modyr , I beseche yow that Dollys and hys felawe may be sent to
that I may haue my money redy ayenst that I com hom , whyche is dew to
be payid , PASTON,I,567.187.5755

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for thys mater hathe cost me the settyng ouer . PASTON,I,567.187.5756

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also that it <P_I,568> may please yow that Purdy at Heylysdon maye be
sent to for the horse that he hathe of myne , and that the horse may be
kept well and haue as myche met as he wyll eate be-twyx thys and +tat I
com hom ; and +tat Jakys nage haue met j-now also .
PASTON,I,568.187.5757

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , and Syr Thomas Wyngfeld com to Norwyche , that he may haue as
good cher as it please yow to make on-to that man that I am most
$behold to for hys gret kyndnesse and good wyll ; PASTON,I,568.187.5758

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he takyth full my part ayenst my gretest enmyeys , Brandons and hys
brodyr William . PASTON,I,568.187.5759

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For at my fyrst comyng to Syr Thomas Wyngfeld bothe William Wyngfeld
and William Brandon the yonger wer wyth Syr Thomas ,
PASTON,I,568.187.5760

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and had gret wordys to my owne mowthe , and in cheff W. Wyngfeld ;
PASTON,I,568.187.5761

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and wher so euyr he may met me on euyn grownd he wyll do myche ,
PASTON,I,568.187.5762

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but and we met euynly no fors , so I haue your blyssyng .
PASTON,I,568.187.5763

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow wyth-owght it be to my Lady Calthorp let ther be but fewe
woordys of thys perdon . PASTON,I,568.187.5764

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more , but I prey God preserue yow and yours . PASTON,I,568.187.5765

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:27
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_187:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Wednysday $next be-fore Mary Mawdelen . By your humblest
sone J. P. PASTON,I,568.187.5766

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_188> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,573>

{ED:352._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1472,_5_JUNE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepfull brodyr Syr John Paston , knyght .
</font> PASTON,I,573.188.5767

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to yow , sertyfying yow +tat , as
God help me , I wend +tat William Barker had ben wyth yow thys
Whyghtsontyd at London and browght yow monye , PASTON,I,573.188.5768

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for so he promysyd bothe Jude` and me +tat he shold do , and also at
hys comyng to London +tat he shold make yow ther a clere reknyng what
mony he had receyuyd and delyuerd . PASTON,I,573.188.5769

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And tyll thys day that I spak wyth hys son I wend he had ben wyth yow
be-cause I herd not fro yow the contrary syn Jwde` was her .
PASTON,I,573.188.5770

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hys son hathe promysyd me that he shall be wyth me thys nyght or
to-morow at the ferthest , PASTON,I,573.188.5771

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if he com syche monye as he hathe I shall cause hym to send it yow
, PASTON,I,573.188.5772

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a vewe of hys acompte to-gedyr by the next messenger that we can
get to London , I promyse yow wyth-owght slawthyng .
PASTON,I,573.188.5773

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for <P_I,574> an hole acompte , Gefrey Spyrlyng can not charge hym
wyth non wythowght a presedent . PASTON,I,574.188.5774

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trow ye haue acomptys of Wynterton and Bastwyk and Runham among your
euydence of Caster , PASTON,I,574.188.5775

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye send me woord to look among your euydence for syche I schall
, PASTON,I,574.188.5776

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then we may charge hym wyth hys hole acompte and I fynd onys a
presedent . PASTON,I,574.188.5777

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue yesterday sent to Herry Hallman to make your money redy a-yenst
Mydsomer , PASTON,I,574.188.5778

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as sone as I her fro hym ayen I shall send yow suyr woord when ye
shall send to hym for monye and not fayle . PASTON,I,574.188.5779

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Mastyr John Smythe tellyth me +tat Syr T. Lyndys goodys ar not
abyll to paye a quarter of hys dettys +tat be axyd hym , wherfor syche
money as is be-left it most be devydyd to euery man a parte aftyr the
quantyte` , whyche dyuysyon is not yet mad ; PASTON,I,574.188.5780

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but when it is mad he hathe promyseyd me +tat your pert $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} worthe iij +te best . PASTON,I,574.188.5781

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I meuyd hym to haue sent yow some monye befor the dyuysyon to haue
pleasyd wyth the apotycary and +te freers for a season ,
PASTON,I,574.188.5782

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue halfe a promesse that he wyll do so ; PASTON,I,574.188.5783

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I ensuer yow by my trowthe , he nor Syr W. Marrys shall not forget it
for lak of callyng on . PASTON,I,574.188.5784

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I tryst veryly ye shall haue the most parte +tat ye get of theym
wyth-in thes vj dayis , PASTON,I,574.188.5785

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I fynd Master J. Smyth well wyllyng ther-to . PASTON,I,574.188.5786

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for J. of Barneys hors , who so haue leest need to hym he
shall cost hym xx mark , not a peny lesse . PASTON,I,574.188.5787

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye send me woord of +te maryage of my Lady Jane ; PASTON,I,574.188.5788

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
o maryage for an other - PASTON,I,574.188.5789

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ouyr norse and Bedford wer axid in the chyrche on Son-day last past .
PASTON,I,574.188.5790

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for my syst {ED:er} Anne , my modyr wyll not remeue fro W.
Yelluerton for Bedyngfeld , PASTON,I,574.188.5791

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she hathe comond ferther in +tat mater syn ye wer in +tis contre` ,
as it aperyth in hyr lettyr +tat she sendyth yow by Thyrston .
PASTON,I,574.188.5792

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Tydyngys her , my lady of Norffolk is wyth chyld ,
PASTON,I,574.188.5793

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
she wenyth hyr-sylf , and so do all +te women a-bowght hyr , in so
myche she waytys the qwyknyng wyth-in thes vj wekys at the ferthest .
PASTON,I,574.188.5794

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also W. Gornay wenyth that Heydon is swyr of Saxthorp and +te Lady
Boleyn of Gwton . PASTON,I,574.188.5795

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Osbern auysythe yow to take brethe for your wodsale at Sporle ,
PASTON,I,574.188.5796

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he hathe cast it that it is woorthe as good as ix=xx= li .
PASTON,I,574.188.5797

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be war of Montayn , PASTON,I,574.188.5798

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he may not pay yow so myche mony wyth hys ease .
PASTON,I,574.188.5799

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow recomand me to Syr John Parre wyth all my seruys ,
PASTON,I,574.188.5800

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell hym by my trouthe I longyd neuer sorer to se my lady then I do
to se hys mastershepe . PASTON,I,574.188.5801

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I prey God that he aryse neuer a mornyng fro my lady his wyff
wyth-owght it be ageyn hyr wyll tyll syche tyme as he bryng hyr to Ouyr
Lady of Walsyngham . PASTON,I,574.188.5802

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I prey yow to recomand me in my most humbyll wyse on-to +te good
lordshepe of +te most corteys , gentylest , wysest , kyndest , most
compenabyll , freest , largeest , and most bowntefous knyght , my lord
the Erle of Arran , whych hathe maryed the <P_I,575> Kyngys sustyr of
Scotlon . PASTON,I,575.188.5803

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Her-to , he is on the lyghtest , delyuerst , best spokyn , fayirest
archer , deuowghtest , most perfyght and trewest to hys lady of all the
knyghtys that euer I was aqweyntyd wyth ; PASTON,I,575.188.5804

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so wold God my lady lyekyd me as well as I do hys person and most
knyghtly condycyon , wyth whom I prey yow to be aqweyntyd as you semyth
best . PASTON,I,575.188.5805

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is lodgyd at +te George in Lombard Strete . PASTON,I,575.188.5806

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He hath a book of my syster Annys of +te Sege of Thebes .
PASTON,I,575.188.5807

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When he hathe doon wyth it he promysyd to delyuer it yow .
PASTON,I,575.188.5808

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow lete Portlond brynge +te book hom wyth hym .
PASTON,I,575.188.5809

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Portlond is loggyd at +te George in Lombard Stret also .
PASTON,I,575.188.5810

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thys I promysse yow , ye schall not be so longe a-yen wyth-ought a
byll fro me as ye haue ben , thow I shold wryght how ofte the wynd
changyth ; PASTON,I,575.188.5811

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I se be your wryghtyng ye can be wrothe and ye wyll .
PASTON,I,575.188.5812

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the v day of June . PASTON,I,575.188.5813

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for $Rysyng {TEXT:Rysyg} , I shall send hym woord to kepe hys day
crastino Johannis . PASTON,I,575.188.5814

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_188:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. Paston PASTON,I,575.188.5815

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_189> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,575>

{ED:353._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1472,_8_JULY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepfull brodyr Syr John Paston , knyght .
</font> PASTON,I,575.189.5816

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to you , sertyfying yow that I
haue spokyn wyth Mastyr John Smyth for Syr T. Lyndys ,
PASTON,I,575.189.5817

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hathe shewyd me your byll whyche ye axe to be content of .
PASTON,I,575.189.5818

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your byll a-lone drawyth iiij mark and ode monye ,
PASTON,I,575.189.5819

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye haue set in your byll for wax a-lone xx s. , whyche to Mastyr
John S. jmagynacyon , and to all other ofycers of the coort , shold not
drawe past xx d. at hys berying . PASTON,I,575.189.5820

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The byllys that be put in to the coorte of Syr T. Lynys dettys drawe
xxx li. xviij s. vj d. , PASTON,I,575.189.5821

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all the money that can be mad of hys house and goodys in thys
contrey drawyth but v li . PASTON,I,575.189.5822

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Master J. Smyth wold ye shold send hym in to the coort an jnventory of
syche goodys as Syr T. had at London when he dyeid ,
PASTON,I,575.189.5823

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat <P_I,576> jnventory onys had ye shall haue as comyth to your
part , and more also . PASTON,I,576.189.5824

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye must send +te serteynte` whedyr the wax be xx s or xx d .
PASTON,I,576.189.5825

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the freers , Master John wyll not alowe theym a peny ,
PASTON,I,576.189.5826

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyth wher +te dettys may not be payeid , set +te beqwestys at
nowght . PASTON,I,576.189.5827

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is agreid to pay the potycarye aftyr that he haue +te jnventory fro
yow . PASTON,I,576.189.5828

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rysyng I trowe hathe be wyth yow . PASTON,I,576.189.5829

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for John Maryot , I haue sent to hym for +te xl s. ,
PASTON,I,576.189.5830

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue non answer . PASTON,I,576.189.5831

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , haue spok wyth Barker , PASTON,I,576.189.5832

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hathe no money PASTON,I,576.189.5833

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor non can get tyll haruest , when he may dystreyn the cropp vp-on +te
grownd . PASTON,I,576.189.5834

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He seyth ther is not owyng past v mark , PASTON,I,576.189.5835

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and on Saterday next comyng he shall send me a vewe of hys acompte
whyche I shall send yow as sone as I haue it . PASTON,I,576.189.5836

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for Fastolffys v mark , J. Wyndham hathe be spokyn to by me half a
doseyn tymys to send to hym for it , PASTON,I,576.189.5837

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth he hathe doon so . PASTON,I,576.189.5838

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , Syr John Styll hathe told Jwde` when ye shall haue the chalys .
PASTON,I,576.189.5839

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ax Jwde` of your crwetys allso . PASTON,I,576.189.5840

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , the prowd , pevyshe , and euyll dysposyd prest to vs all , Syr
Jamys , seyth +tat ye comandyd hym to delyuer +te book of vij Sagys to
my brodyr Water , and he hathe it . PASTON,I,576.189.5841

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I send yow the serteynte` her-wyth of as myche as can be
enqweryd for myn oncyll W. cleym in Caster . PASTON,I,576.189.5842

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Those artyclys +tat fayle , the tenauntys of Caster shall enqwer theym
and send theym to me hastyly . PASTON,I,576.189.5843

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They haue promysyd and they com ye shall haue theym sent yow by the
next messenger +tat comyth to London . PASTON,I,576.189.5844

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my modyr sendyth yow woord that she hathe neyther Master Robard
Popyes oblygacyon nor the Byshopys . PASTON,I,576.189.5845

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , my modyr wold ye shold in all haste gete her aqwetance of the
Byshop of Wynchester for Syr John Fastolff goodys .
PASTON,I,576.189.5846

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She preyid yow to make it swyr by +te auyse of your consayll ,
PASTON,I,576.189.5847

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she wyll pay for the costys . PASTON,I,576.189.5848

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , she preyith yow to spek to +te seyd Byshop for to get Master
Clement $Felmyngham {TEXT:Felmygham} the viij mark be yer dwryng hys
lyffe that Syr J. Fastolff be-set hym . PASTON,I,576.189.5849

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She preyid yow to get hym an asygnement for it to som maner in Norffolk
or in Lothynglond . PASTON,I,576.189.5850

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , she wold ye shold get yow an other house to ley in youyr stuff
syche as cam fro Caster ; PASTON,I,576.189.5851

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
she thynkyth on of the freerys is a fayir house . PASTON,I,576.189.5852

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She purposeyth to go in-to the contre` and ther to soiorn onys a-yen .
PASTON,I,576.189.5853

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Many qwarellys ar pyekyd to get my brodyr E. and me ought of hyr howse
. PASTON,I,576.189.5854

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We go not to bed vnchedyn lyghtly . PASTON,I,576.189.5855

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All +tat we do is ille doon , PASTON,I,576.189.5856

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and all that Syr Jamys and Pekok dothe is well doon .
PASTON,I,576.189.5857

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr Jamys and I be tweyn . PASTON,I,576.189.5858

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
We <P_I,577> fyll owght be-for my modyr wyth ' Thow prowd prest ' and '
Thow prowd sqwyer ' , my modyr takyng hys part , PASTON,I,577.189.5859

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I haue almost beshet +te bote as for my modyrs house .
PASTON,I,577.189.5860

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yet somer $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} don or I get me eny mastyr .
PASTON,I,577.189.5861

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr purposeith hastyly to take estate in all hyr londys , and
vp-on that estate to make hyr wyll of +te seyd londys :
PASTON,I,577.189.5862

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
parte to geue to my yonger brethyrn for term of her lyuys and aftyr to
remayn to yow , PASTON,I,577.189.5863

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
pert to my syster Annys marynge tyll an c li. be payid ,
PASTON,I,577.189.5864

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
part for to make hyr jle at Mawtby , PASTON,I,577.189.5865

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
parte for a prest to syng for hyr and my fadyr and ther ancestrys .
PASTON,I,577.189.5866

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in thys angyr betwen Syr Jamys and me she hathe promyseid me that
my parte shall be nowght ; PASTON,I,577.189.5867

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
what your $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} I can not sey .
PASTON,I,577.189.5868

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God sped the plowghe ! PASTON,I,577.189.5869

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I feythe ye must puruey for my brodyr E. to go ouer wyth yow ,
PASTON,I,577.189.5870

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or he is on-don . PASTON,I,577.189.5871

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He wyll bryng xx noblys in hys purse . PASTON,I,577.189.5872

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr wyll nowthyr geue nor lend non of you bothe a peny forward .
PASTON,I,577.189.5873

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Puruey a meane to haue Caster ayen or ye goo ouyr ;
PASTON,I,577.189.5874

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my lord and my lady - whyche for serteyn is gret wyth chyld - be wery
ther-of , and all +te housold also . PASTON,I,577.189.5875

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye wyll eny othyr $thyng to be don in thys contre` , send me woord
PASTON,I,577.189.5876

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I $shall $do {TEXT:shalldo} as well as I can , wyth Godys grace ,
who preserue yow . PASTON,I,577.189.5877

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn the viij day of Julle . PASTON,I,577.189.5878

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray yow recomand me to my lord of Aran , Syr John Par , Syr George
Browne , Osbern Berney , R. Hyd , J. Hoxson , my cosyn hys wyfe Kate ,
W. Wood , and all . PASTON,I,577.189.5879

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey brenne thys $byll for losyng . PASTON,I,577.189.5880

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_189:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your J. P. PASTON,I,577.189.5881

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_190> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,577>

{ED:354._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1472,_21_SEPTEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to yow , letyng yow wet +tat your
desyer as for the knyghtys of the shyer was an impossybyl to be browhgt
a-bowght , PASTON,I,577.190.5882

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my lord of Norffolk and my lord of Suffolk wer agreid more then a
fortnyght go to haue Syr Robert Wyngfeld and Syr Rychard Harcort ;
PASTON,I,577.190.5883

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that knew I not tyll it was Fryday last past .
PASTON,I,577.190.5884

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had sent or I rod <P_I,578> to $Framlyngham {TEXT:Framlygham} to
warne as many of your frendys to be at Norwyche as thys Monday to serue
your entent as I koud ; PASTON,I,578.190.5885

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but when I cam to $Framlyngham {TEXT:Framlygham} and knew the
$apoyntment {TEXT:apoytment} that was takyn for the ij knyghtys , I
sent warnyng ayen to as many as {to}_P I myght to tery at hom .
PASTON,I,578.190.5886

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet ther cam to Norwyche thys day as many as ther costys drewe to
ix s. j d. ob. , payid and reknyd by Pekok and R. Capron ,
PASTON,I,578.190.5887

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet they dyd but brak ther fast PASTON,I,578.190.5888

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and depertyd . PASTON,I,578.190.5889

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I thankyd hem in your name PASTON,I,578.190.5890

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and told them that ye wold haue noo voyse as thys day ,
PASTON,I,578.190.5891

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye supposyd not to be in Inglond when the perlement shold be .
PASTON,I,578.190.5892

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so they cam not at the sherhous , PASTON,I,578.190.5893

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if they had it was thowght by syche as be your frendys her that
your aduersarys wold haue reportyd +tat ye had mad labor to haue ben on
, and +tat ye koud not bryng your purpose a-bowght .
PASTON,I,578.190.5894

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent to Yermowthe , PASTON,I,578.190.5895

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and they haue promysyd also to Doctor Aleyn and John Russe to be mor
then iij wekys goo . PASTON,I,578.190.5896

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Jamys Arblaster hathe wretyn a letter to the bayle` of Maldon in Essex
to haue you a borgeys ther . PASTON,I,578.190.5897

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howe Jwde` shall sped let hym tell yow when ye spek to-gedyr .
PASTON,I,578.190.5898

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I haue ben twyis at $Framlyngham {TEXT:Framlygham} sythe your
depertyng , PASTON,I,578.190.5899

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now the last tym the consayll was ther I sye yowyr lettyr , whyche
was bettyr then well endyghtyd . PASTON,I,578.190.5900

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
R. T. was not at $Framlyngham {TEXT:Framlygham} when the consayll was
ther , PASTON,I,578.190.5901

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I took myn owne auysse PASTON,I,578.190.5902

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and delyuerd it to the consayll , wyth a propocysion ther-wyth as well
as I kowd spek it ; PASTON,I,578.190.5903

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my wordys wer well takyn , but your letter a thowsand fold bettyr .
PASTON,I,578.190.5904

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
When they had red it they shewyd it to my lady . PASTON,I,578.190.5905

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Aftyr that my lady had sen it I spak wyth my lady , offyryng to my lord
and hyr your seruyse , and besyd +tat ye to do my lord a plesur and hyr
a bettyr , so as ye myght depert , wyth-ought eny some specyfyid .
PASTON,I,578.190.5906

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She wold not dell in that mater , PASTON,I,578.190.5907

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but remyttyd me a-yen to the consayll , PASTON,I,578.190.5908

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she seyd and she spake in it tyll my lord and the consayll wer
agreid they wold ley the wyght of all the mater on hyr , whyche shold
be reportyd to hyr shame ; PASTON,I,578.190.5909

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thys she promyseid , to be helpyng so it wer fyrst meuyd by the
consayll . PASTON,I,578.190.5910

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Then I went to the consayll PASTON,I,578.190.5911

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and offyrd befor them youyr seruyse to my lord , and to do hym a
plesure for +te haueing ayen of your place and londys in Caster xl li.
, not spekyng of your stuff nor thyng ellys . PASTON,I,578.190.5912

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So they answerd me your offyr was more then resonabyll ,
PASTON,I,578.190.5913

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if the mater wer thers they seyd they wyst what conscyence wold
dryue hem to . PASTON,I,578.190.5914

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They seyd they wold meue my lord wyth it , PASTON,I,578.190.5915

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so they dyd ; PASTON,I,578.190.5916

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but then the tempest aros PASTON,I,578.190.5917

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he gaue hem syche an answer that non of hem all wold tell it me .
PASTON,I,578.190.5918

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But when I axid an answer of hem they seyd and som lordys or gretter
men meuyd my lord wyth it the mater wer your . PASTON,I,578.190.5919

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Kepe consayle . PASTON,I,578.190.5920

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And wyth thys answer I depertyd ; PASTON,I,578.190.5921

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Syr W. Brandon , <P_I,579> Sothewell , Tymperley , Herry Wentworthe
, W. Gornay , and all other of consayll vndyrstand that ye haue wronge
, in so myche that they meuyd me that ye shold take a recompence of
other lond to the valew . PASTON,I,579.190.5922

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But they wold not avowe the offyr , PASTON,I,579.190.5923

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I anserd hem that if +tey had ryght they wold haue ofyrd no
recompence . PASTON,I,579.190.5924

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dyscwyr not thys ; PASTON,I,579.190.5925

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but in my reason , and my lord Chamberleyn wold send my lady a letter
wyth some $preuy tokyn betwyx theym , and allso to meue my lord of
Norffolk when he comyth to the perlement , serteynly Caster is yours .
PASTON,I,579.190.5926

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If ye mysse to be burgeys of Maldon and my lord Chamberleyn wyll , ye
may be in a-nother plase . PASTON,I,579.190.5927

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther be a doseyn townys in Inglond that chesse no borgeys whyche ought
to do , PASTON,I,579.190.5928

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye may be set in for on of those townys and ye be frendyd .
PASTON,I,579.190.5929

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also in eny wyse forget not in all hast to get some goodly ryng , pryse
of xx s. , or som praty flowyr of the same pryse and not vndyr , to
geue to Jane Rodon , PASTON,I,579.190.5930

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she hathe ben the most specyall laborer in your mater
PASTON,I,579.190.5931

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hathe promysyd hyr good wyll foorthe , PASTON,I,579.190.5932

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she dothe all wyth hyr mastresse . PASTON,I,579.190.5933

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And my lord Chamberleyn wyll , he may cause my lord of Norffolk to com
vp soner to the perlement then he shold do , PASTON,I,579.190.5934

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then he may apoynt wyth hym for yow or +te ferm corn be gadryd .
PASTON,I,579.190.5935

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I profyrd but xl li. , PASTON,I,579.190.5936

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if my lord Chamberleyn profyr my lady the remenaunt I con thynk it
shall be takyn ; PASTON,I,579.190.5937

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my lady must haue $somwhat to bye hyr kouercheffys be-syd my lord .
PASTON,I,579.190.5938

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A soper +tat I payd for wher all the consayll was at $Framlyngham
{TEXT:Framlygham} ij s. iij d. , and my costys at $Framlyngham
{TEXT:Framlygham} , twyis lying ther by viij dayis , wyth ix s. j ob .
PASTON,I,579.190.5939

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for costys of +te contre` at Norwyche , drawyth a-bowght xx s. , I
trowe more , by Ouyr Lady - PASTON,I,579.190.5940

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if it be lesse , stand to your harmys ; PASTON,I,579.190.5941

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sic remanet v li. xiij s. iiij d . PASTON,I,579.190.5942

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I axe no more god of you , for all the seruyse +tat I shall do yow
whyll the world standyth , but a gosshawke , if eny of my lord
Chamberleyns men or yours goo to Kaleys , or if eny be to get in London
- that is a mewyd hawk , PASTON,I,579.190.5943

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she may make yow sporte when ye com in-to Inglond a doseyn yer hens
, PASTON,I,579.190.5944

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to call vp-on yow owyrly , nyghtly , dayly , dyner , soper for thys
hawke . PASTON,I,579.190.5945

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray noo mor , PASTON,I,579.190.5946

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my brodyr E. , J. Pampyng , Thyrston , J. Myryell , W. Pytte , T.
Plattyng , Jwde` , Lityll Jak , Mastyr Boton , and W. Wood to boote ,
to whyche persons I prey yow to comand me ; PASTON,I,579.190.5947

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if all thes lyst to spek to yow of thys mater when Syr George
Browne , W. Knyuett , R. Hyd , or eny folkys of worchepp and of my
aqweyntanse be in your <P_I,580> company , so +tat they may helpe
forthe , for all is lytyll j-nowe and ye be not very well wyllyng , I
shall so puruey for hem , PASTON,I,580.190.5948

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and euer ye com to Norwyche and they wyth yow , that they shall haue as
deynte` vytayll and as gret plente` ther-of for j d. as they shall haue
of the tresorer of Caleys for xv ; and ye parauenture a pye of
Wymondham to boote . PASTON,I,580.190.5949

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now thynk on me , good lord , PASTON,I,580.190.5950

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for jff I haue not an hawke I shall wax fatt for default of labor and
ded for defawlt of company , by my trowthe . PASTON,I,580.190.5951

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nomore , but I pray God send you all your desyers , and me my mwyd
gosshawk in hast ; or rather +ten fayle a sowyr hawke .
PASTON,I,580.190.5952

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther is a grosser dwellyng ryght ouerayenst the well wyth ij bokettys a
lytyll fro Seynt Elyns hathe euyr hawkys to sell .
PASTON,I,580.190.5953

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwych the xxj day of September . PASTON,I,580.190.5954

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. PASTON,I,580.190.5955

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_190:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rather then faylle a tarssell prouyd wyll ocwpy the tyme tyll I com to
Caleys . PASTON,I,580.190.5956

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_191> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,581>

{ED:355._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1472,_16_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A monser J. Paston , cheualler . PASTON,I,581.191.5957

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I comand me to yow , sertyfying yow that Pekok
hathe receyuyd of Syr John Stylle by a bylle all syche stuff as he had
of your ; PASTON,I,581.191.5958

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as for Kendallys mater , he hathe doon as myche in it as can be
doon . PASTON,I,581.191.5959

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as for Richard Calle , he hathe geuyn hym a pleyn answer +tat he
wyll not seale to the lease +tat ye haue mad to Kendalle ,
PASTON,I,581.191.5960

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he seyth he wottyth not whether it be your wylle or not ,
notwythstandyng he sye yore sealle vp-on it . PASTON,I,581.191.5961

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wold be sory to delyuer hym a subpena and ye sent it me .
PASTON,I,581.191.5962

<P_I,582>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send yow herwyth the endenture betwyx yow and Townesend .
PASTON,I,582.191.5963

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr hathe herd of that mater by the reporte of old Wayte , whyche
rennyth on it wyth opyn mowthe in hys werst wyse .
PASTON,I,582.191.5964

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My modyr wepyth PASTON,I,582.191.5965

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and takyth on meruaylously , PASTON,I,582.191.5966

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she seythe she wotyth well it shall neuer be pledgyd ought ;
wherfor she seythe that she wyll puruey for hyr lond +tat ye shall non
selle of it , PASTON,I,582.191.5967

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she thynkys ye wold and it cam to yowr hand . PASTON,I,582.191.5968

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for hyr wyll , and all syche maters as wer in hand at your last
being here , they thynk that it shall not lye in all oure porys to let
it in on poynt . PASTON,I,582.191.5969

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr Jamys is euyr choppyng at me when my modyr is present , wyth syche
wordys as he thynkys wrathe me and also cause my modyr to be
dyspleaseid wyth me , evyn as who seyth he wold I wyst that he settyth
not by the best of vs . PASTON,I,582.191.5970

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And when he hathe most vnsyttyng woordys to me , I smylle a lytyll
PASTON,I,582.191.5971

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell hym it is good heryng of thes old talys .
PASTON,I,582.191.5972

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr Jamys is parson of Stokysby by J. Bernays gyft .
PASTON,I,582.191.5973

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trowe he beryth hym the hyeer . PASTON,I,582.191.5974

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , ye must sende in haste to W. Barker a warant to pay John Kook
xxxjj s. , and to the woman of Yermothe for otys x s. , and Syr John
Styll hys money , PASTON,I,582.191.5975

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for they call dayly vp-on it . PASTON,I,582.191.5976

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , I prey yow send me some tydyngys howgh the world gothe , and
whether ye haue sent eny of your folk to Caleys . PASTON,I,582.191.5977

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Me thynkys it costyth yow to myche money for to kepe hem all in London
at your charge . PASTON,I,582.191.5978

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , whethyr ye haue eny thyng spokyn of my going to Caleys .
PASTON,I,582.191.5979

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for a goshawk or a terssell , I wend to haue had on of yours
in kepyng or thys tyme ; PASTON,I,582.191.5980

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but fere fro jee , fer fro hert . PASTON,I,582.191.5981

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
By my trowthe , I dye for defawlt of labore . PASTON,I,582.191.5982

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And it may be by eny meane possybyll , for Godys sake let on be sent me
in all hast , PASTON,I,582.191.5983

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for if it be not had by Halowmess the seson shall passe a-non .
PASTON,I,582.191.5984

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Memento mei , and in feythe ye shall not loose on it - nor yet myche
wyne on it , by God , who preserue yow . PASTON,I,582.191.5985

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Seynt Mychell Day in Monte Tomba . PASTON,I,582.191.5986

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_191:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. PASTON,I,582.191.5987

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_192> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,583>

{ED:356._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1472,_24_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To master Syr John Paston , knyght . </font>
PASTON,I,583.192.5988

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to yow , thankyng yow most hertly
of your dylygence and cost whyche ye had in gettyng of the hawk whyche
ye sent me , PASTON,I,583.192.5989

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for well I wot your labore and trowbyll in that mater was as myche as
thow she had ben the best of the world . PASTON,I,583.192.5990

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But so God help me , as ferforthe as the most connyng estragers that
euer I spak wyth can jmagyn , she shall neuer serue but to ley eggys ,
PASTON,I,583.192.5991

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she is bothe a mwer de haye PASTON,I,583.192.5992

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also she hathe ben so brooseid wyth cariage of fowle that she is as
good as lame in boothe hyr leggys , as euery man may se at jee ;
wherfor all syche folk as haue seen hyr auyse me to cast hyr in-to some
wood wher as I wyll haue hyr to eyer . PASTON,I,583.192.5993

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I wyll do ther-in as ye wyll , whedyr ye wyll I send hyr yow a-yen
or cast hyr in Thorp wood and a tarsell wyth hyr ,
PASTON,I,583.192.5994

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I woot wher on js . PASTON,I,583.192.5995

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But now I dar no more put yow to the cost of an hawke ;
PASTON,I,583.192.5996

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for Godys sak , and ther be eny tersell or good chep goshawk that
myght be gotyn , that the berer herof may haue hyr to bryng me .
PASTON,I,583.192.5997

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I ensuer yow be my trowthe ye shall haue Dollys and Browne bonde to
paye yow at Kandyllmas the pryse of the hawke . PASTON,I,583.192.5998

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now , and ye haue as many ladyse as ye wer wont to haue , I reqwere yow
for hyr sake that ye best loue of theym alle , onys trowbyll yowr-syllf
for me in thys mater , and be owght of my clamor .
PASTON,I,583.192.5999

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , as for the ryng , it is delyuerd , PASTON,I,583.192.6000

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I had as gret peyn to make hyr take it as euer I had in syche a
mater ; PASTON,I,583.192.6001

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I haue promyseid yow to be hyr knyght , PASTON,I,583.192.6002

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she hathe promyseid me to be more at yowr comandment then at eny
knyghtys in Inglond , my lord reseruyd , PASTON,I,583.192.6003

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that ye shall well vnderstand if ye haue owght to do wherin she may
be an helper , PASTON,I,583.192.6004

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther was neuer knyght dyd so myche cost on hyr as ye haue doo .
PASTON,I,583.192.6005

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I meruayll that I her no woord of the lettyrs that my lord Chamberleyn
shold send to my lord and my lady for Caster . PASTON,I,583.192.6006

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is best that my lord <P_I,584> Chamberleyn wryght to my lady by som
preuy tokyn betwyx theym and let a man of hys com wyth the lettrys .
PASTON,I,584.192.6007

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lord Chamberleyn may speed wyth my lady what maters he wyll , sauyng
the gret mater , PASTON,I,584.192.6008

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye inbyll me for a solysitor , I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} a
vouster comandment a touz iours . PASTON,I,584.192.6009

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Item , me thynkyth that ye do euyll that ye go not thorowgh wyth my
lady of Suffolk for Heylysdon and Drayton , PASTON,I,584.192.6010

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther shold growe mony to yow whyche wold qwyte yow ayenst R. T. and
all other , and set yow befor for euer . PASTON,I,584.192.6011

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow , for your ease and all others to yow ward , plye thes
maters . PASTON,I,584.192.6012

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for all $other thyngys , I shall send yow an answer when I com to
Norwyche , whyche shall be on Thorsday , wyth Godys grace .
PASTON,I,584.192.6013

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue teryd her at $Framlyngham {TEXT:Framlygham} thys seuennyght
{TEXT:suennyght} , PASTON,I,584.192.6014

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for {ED:my} lady took not hyr chambyr tyll yersterday .
PASTON,I,584.192.6015

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
A dewe . PASTON,I,584.192.6016

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn on Seynt Kateryns Euyn . PASTON,I,584.192.6017

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. PASTON,I,584.192.6018

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sye the pye PASTON,I,584.192.6019

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and herd it spek , PASTON,I,584.192.6020

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be God it is not worthe a crowe . PASTON,I,584.192.6021

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is fer-MSR wers then ye wend . PASTON,I,584.192.6022

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_192:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be God , it wer shame to kep it in a cage . PASTON,I,584.192.6023

<Q_PAS_A_1472_T_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_193> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1415>

<P_I,587>

{ED:359._TO_THE_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK:COPY_1472,_LATE}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:57
LETTER:PASTON_193:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To the right hyghe and myghty prince and my right good and gracious
lord , my lord the Dwke of Norffolk PASTON,I,587.193.6024

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:57
LETTER:PASTON_193:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Mekly besechyth your hyghness your poore and trew contynuall seruaunt
and oratour John Paston the yonger that it myght please your good grace
to call on-to your most discret and notabyll remembrance that lateward
, at the costys and charge of my brodyr John Paston , knyght , whyche
most entendith to do that myght please your hyghness , the ryght nobyll
lord the Bysshopp of Wynchester entretyd so and compouned wyth your
lordshepp that it liekyd the same to be so good and gracyous lord to my
seyd brodyr that , by forsse of serteyn dedys , relessis , and lettrys
of attorney selyd wyth the sealys of your good grace and of other
serteyn personys jnfeoffyd to your vse in the maner of Castre , late
John Fastolffys , knyght , in the conte` of Norffolk , my seyd brodyr
and I , wyth other enffeoffyd to my seyd brodyrs vse in the seyd maner
, wer peasably possessyd of and in the same tyll syche tyme as serteyn
personys , seruauntys on-to your good grace , entred in to the seyd
maner , and therof haue takyn the jssues and profitys in the name of
your seyd hyghnesse by the space of thre yer and $more , to the gret
hurt of my seyd brodyr and me , your seyd seruaunt and oratour .
Wherfor , as I haue oft tymys befor thys , I beseche your good grace ,
at the reuerence of God and in the wey of charyte` , that my seyd
brodyr may by your hyghness be a-yen restoryd in-to the possessyon of
the $seyd maner $accordyng to the lawe and good conscyence .
PASTON,I,587.193.6025

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:57
LETTER:PASTON_193:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And we shall prey to God for the preseruacyon of your most nobyll
estate . PASTON,I,587.193.6026

<Q_PAS_A_1475?_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_194> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,593>

{ED:364._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_PROBABLY_1475,_29_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston , at Mawtby .
</font> PASTON,I,593.194.6027

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchepfull modyr , aftyr all humbyll recomendacyons as lowely as
I can I beseche yow of your blyssyng . PASTON,I,593.194.6028

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
$Please $it {TEXT:Pleasyt} yow to wet that late yesternyght I cam to
Norwyche purposeing to haue been as thys day wyth yow at Mawtby , but
it is so that I may not hold my purpose , PASTON,I,593.194.6029

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he that shall pay me my quarter wagys for me and my retenew is in
Norwyche PASTON,I,593.194.6030

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and waytyth ourly when hys money shall com to hym .
PASTON,I,593.194.6031

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It is oon $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} Bowen of the Cheker , a specyall frend
of myn , PASTON,I,593.194.6032

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he avysyth me to tery tyll the money be com lest +tat I be vnpayed
; PASTON,I,593.194.6033

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for who comyth fyrst to the mylle fyrst must grynd .
PASTON,I,593.194.6034

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as I was wryghtyng thys byll on of the gromys of my lordys chambyr
cam to me PASTON,I,593.194.6035

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and told me that my lady wyll be here in Norwyche to-morow at nyght ,
towardys $Walsyngham , whyche shall I wot well be a-nother lett to me ,
PASTON,I,593.194.6036

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I had more need to be otherwyse ocupyed then to awayte on ladyse ;
PASTON,I,593.194.6037

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for ther is as yett , I trowe , no sperre that shall go over the see so
evyll horsyd as I am . PASTON,I,593.194.6038

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But it is told me that Rychard Call hathe a good horse to sell , and on
John Bocher of Oxborough hathe an other ; PASTON,I,593.194.6039

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if it myght please yow to geue Syme leve to ryd in-to that contre`
at my cost and in your name , seying that ye wyll geue on of your sonys
an horse , desyiryng hym that he wyll geue yow a penyworthe for a peny
, and he shall , and the pryse be resonabyll , hold hym pleasyd wyth
yowr payment ought of my purse thow he knowe it not or hys horse depert
fro hys handys . PASTON,I,593.194.6040

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Modyr , I $beseche yow , and itt may please yow , to geue Syme leue to
ryde on thys message in your name , that he may be here wyth me
to-morow in the mornyng betymys ; PASTON,I,593.194.6041

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for wer I onys horsyd I trowe I wer as ferforthe redy as some of my
neyghborows . PASTON,I,593.194.6042

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I herd a lytyll word that ye purposeid to be here in Norwyche thys next
week . PASTON,I,593.194.6043

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey God it be thys week . PASTON,I,593.194.6044

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Modyr , I beseche yow that I may haue an answer to-morow at the
ferthest of thys mater , and of eny other seruyse that it please yow to
comand me , whyche I wyll at all seasons {ED:be}_BE redy to <P_I,594>
accomplyshe , wyth Godys grace , whom I beseche to preserue yow and
yours . PASTON,I,594.194.6045

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:31?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_194:M4:1475?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche thys Wednysday in Estern week . By your sone and
seruaunt J. P. PASTON,I,594.194.6046

<Q_PAS_A_1475_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_195> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,594>

{ED:365._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1475,_10_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worchepfull Syr John Paston , knyght , lodgyd at
the George by Powlys Wherff in London . </font> PASTON,I,594.195.6047

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchepfull syr , I recomand me to yow , sertyfying yow that I
haue comonyd wyth Barnard and other your wellwyllers wyth my lord of
Norffolk , whyche avise me that ye shold for your nyghest meane to get
Caster a-yen labore to get a lettre fro the Kyng dyrect to R. Sothewell
, Jamys Hubbard , and o+ter of my lordys consayll being , and to jche
of theym ; and in the seyd letter to lete theym haue knowlage that the
Kyng mevyd to my lord of the seyd mater beyond +te see , and hough my
lord answerd the Kyng that at hys comyng in-to Inglond he wold meue to
hys seyd consayll of the seyd mater and geue the Kyng an answer .
Wherfor the Kyng in the seyd lettyr must streyghtly charge theym , and
iche of theym , to comon wyth my lord in the seyd mater in syche wyse
that the Kyng may be sertyfyed of an answer fro my lord and theym at
the ferthest by Crastino Animarum , PASTON,I,594.195.6048

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for Suthewell nor Jamys Hubbard shall not be at London befor Halowmass
. PASTON,I,594.195.6049

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And thys is the best wey that ye may take , as we thynk here .
PASTON,I,594.195.6050

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lady sweryth , and so dothe Barnard on hyr byhalff , that she wold
as fayne ye had it as eny body ; PASTON,I,594.195.6051

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
notwythstandyng she seyd not so to me sythe I cam hom ,
PASTON,I,594.195.6052

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I spak not wyth hyr but onys sythe I sye yow last .
PASTON,I,594.195.6053

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yet she lythe in Norwyche , PASTON,I,594.195.6054

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and shall do tyll she be delyuerd . PASTON,I,594.195.6055

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But I haue be seek ever sythe I cam on thys syd the see ,
PASTON,I,594.195.6056

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I trust hastyly to amend , PASTON,I,594.195.6057

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for all my seknesse that I had at Caleys , and sythe I cam ouer also ,
cam but of cold ; PASTON,I,594.195.6058

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I was never so well armyd for the werre as I haue now armyd me for
cold . Wherfor I avyse yow take exampyll by me if it happyn yow to be
seek , as ye wer when I was at Caleys : PASTON,I,594.195.6059

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
in eny wyse kepe yow warme . PASTON,I,594.195.6060

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I weene Herry Woodhous nor Jamys Arblaster ware never at onys so many
cotys , hose , and botewx as I doo , PASTON,I,594.195.6061

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or ellys by God we had gone therfor . PASTON,I,594.195.6062

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
What we shall yet I can not sey , PASTON,I,594.195.6063

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I bere me bold on ij dayes amendyng . PASTON,I,594.195.6064

<P_I,595>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modyr sendyth yow Godys blyssing and hyrs , PASTON,I,595.195.6065

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and she wold fayne haue yow at hom wyth hyr ; PASTON,I,595.195.6066

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if ye be onys mette she tellyth me ye shall not lyghtly depart tyll
dethe depart yow . PASTON,I,595.195.6067

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As I was wryghtyng thys lettyr on told me that the Kyng shold be at
$Walsyngham {TEXT:Walsygham} thys next {ED:weke} ;
PASTON,I,595.195.6068

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
if it be so it wer best for yow to awayte on the Kyng all the wey ,
PASTON,I,595.195.6069

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if ye haue not men and horse j-nowghe I shall send yow .
PASTON,I,595.195.6070

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Do as ye thynk best , PASTON,I,595.195.6071

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as ye wyll haue me to do send me your avyse PASTON,I,595.195.6072

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I shall accomplyshe it to my power , wyth Godys grace , who
preserue yow . PASTON,I,595.195.6073

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche the x day of October A=o= xv=o= E. iiij=ti= .
PASTON,I,595.195.6074

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_195:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
P. J. PASTON,I,595.195.6075

<Q_PAS_A_1475_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_196> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,595>

{ED:366._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1475,_23_OCTOBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Syr John Paston , knyght , lodgyd at the George by Powlys
Wherff in London . </font> PASTON,I,595.196.6076

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all dwte`s of recomendacyon , please it yow to vndyrstand that I
haue spokyn wyth my lady sythe I wrot to yow last , and she told me
that the Kyng had no syche woordys to my lord for Caster as ye told me
; PASTON,I,595.196.6077

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but she seyth that the Kyng axid my lord at hys departyng fro Caleys
how he wold deele wyth Caster , PASTON,I,595.196.6078

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and my lord answerd nevyr a woord . PASTON,I,595.196.6079

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr W. Brandon stood by , PASTON,I,595.196.6080

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the Kyng axid hym what my lord wold do in that mater , seying that
he had comandyd hym be-for tyme to meue my lord wyth that mater .
PASTON,I,595.196.6081

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And Syr W. Brandon gaue the Kyng to answer that he had doone so .
PASTON,I,595.196.6082

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Then the Kyng axid Syr W. B. what my lordys answer was to hym ,
PASTON,I,595.196.6083

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and Syr W. B. told the Kyng that my lordys answer was that the Kyng
shold as soone haue hys lyff as that place . PASTON,I,595.196.6084

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And then the Kyng axed my lord whedyr he seyd so or nought ,
PASTON,I,595.196.6085

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and my lord seyd yee . PASTON,I,595.196.6086

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And the Kyng seyd not o woord ayen , PASTON,I,595.196.6087

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but tornyd hys bak PASTON,I,595.196.6088

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and went hys wey . PASTON,I,595.196.6089

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But my lady told me and the Kyng had spokyn eny woord in the world
aftyr that to my lord , my lord wold not haue seyd hym nay .
PASTON,I,595.196.6090

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I haue gevyn my lady warnyng that I wyll do my lord no more servys
; PASTON,I,595.196.6091

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but or we partyd she mad me to make hyr promess that I shold let hyr
haue knowlage or I fastonyd my-sylff in eny other servysse .
PASTON,I,595.196.6092

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so I departyd , PASTON,I,595.196.6093

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sye hyr not syness PASTON,I,595.196.6094

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor nought purpose to doo tyll I spek wyth yow . PASTON,I,595.196.6095

<P_I,596>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow bryng hom some hattys wyth yow , PASTON,I,596.196.6096

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
or and ye come not hastyly send me on by Corby , whyche shall com
homward on Fryday or Saterday next comyng at the ferthest ,
PASTON,I,596.196.6097

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I shall pay yow for it a comb otys when ye com hom .
PASTON,I,596.196.6098

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My modyr wold fayn haue yow at Mawtby . PASTON,I,596.196.6099

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She rod thydyr ought of Norwyche on Saterday last past to purvey your
lodgyng redy ayenst your comyng . PASTON,I,596.196.6100

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I haue been ryght seek a-yen sythe I wroote to yow last ,
PASTON,I,596.196.6101

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thys same day haue I ben passyng seek . PASTON,I,596.196.6102

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It wyll not ought of my stomak by no mean ; PASTON,I,596.196.6103

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I am vndon . PASTON,I,596.196.6104

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I may not ete halff j-nough when I haue most hungyr .
PASTON,I,596.196.6105

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I am so well dyettyd , PASTON,I,596.196.6106

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yet it wyll not be . PASTON,I,596.196.6107

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God send yow heele , PASTON,I,596.196.6108

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for $I haue non iij dayes to-gedyr , do the best I can .
PASTON,I,596.196.6109

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche the Monday next be-for Seynt Simond and Jude A=o= E.
iiij=ti= xv=o= . PASTON,I,596.196.6110

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
J. P. PASTON,I,596.196.6111

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myn oncyll told Calle when he payed hym the money that I had ben at
London wyth hym to compasse hym . PASTON,I,596.196.6112

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He ment that I cam thedyr to proue hys kyndness to yow ward .
PASTON,I,596.196.6113

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow tell hym that I dyd nor seyd to hym other-wyse then ye
desyerd me to doo . PASTON,I,596.196.6114

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:31
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:33
LETTER:PASTON_196:M4:1475:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I promyse yow he is verry wrothe wyth me , by Symys seying .
PASTON,I,596.196.6115

<Q_PAS_A_1476_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_197> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,596>

{ED:367._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1476,_21_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,596.197.6116

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all dewte`s of recomendacyon , $please $it {TEXT:pleasyt} yow to
weet that as yesterday att noon my brodyr Syr John departyd fro
Norwyche towardys London , PASTON,I,596.197.6117

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for as now all the sped is wyth the Kyng for the swerte` of the maner
of Caster , consyderyng the dyeing seasyd of my lord of Norffolk .
PASTON,I,596.197.6118

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He trustyth to be in thys contre` ayen wyth-in x or xij dayes .
PASTON,I,596.197.6119

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And at hys departyng he seyd to me that ye sent hym woord to selle the
clothe of gold if he myght <P_I,597> selle it well , whyche clothe I
thynk may be sold iff ye wyll agre` . PASTON,I,597.197.6120

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Not wythstandyng I wylle make no bargayn for it tyll ye send me woord
of the serteyn some , what ye wyll haue for it or ellys ye to haue it
a-yen . PASTON,I,597.197.6121

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr Robard Wyngfeld offyrd me $yesterday {TEXT:yestday} xx mark for it
, PASTON,I,597.197.6122

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I wot well ye shall haue more for it if ye wyll sell it ; wher-for
as ye wyll deele in thys mater I prey yow send me woord to-morow be
tymys , PASTON,I,597.197.6123

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for if thys bargayn be forsakyn I trow it wyll be longe or ye kan get
an other bargayn to selle it eny thyng aftyr that it is woorthe .
PASTON,I,597.197.6124

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Modyr , in as humbyll wyse as I can I beseche yow of your blyssyng .
PASTON,I,597.197.6125

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I trust fro hense foorthe that we shall haue our chyldyr in rest
wyth-ought rebwkyng for ther pleying wanton , PASTON,I,597.197.6126

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for it is told me your ostass at Freton hathe gotyn hyr syche a thyng
to pley wyth that our other chyldyr shall haue leue to sporte theym .
PASTON,I,597.197.6127

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God send hyr joye of it . PASTON,I,597.197.6128

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wrytyn at Norwyche thys Sonday . PASTON,I,597.197.6129

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_197:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your sone and humbyll seruaunt John Paston PASTON,I,597.197.6130

<Q_PAS_A_1476_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_198> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,597>

{ED:368._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1476,_23_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Syr John Paston , knyght , at +te George at Powlys Wharffe .
</font> PASTON,I,597.198.6131

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all dewte`s of recomendacyon , lyeketh yow to weet that I ensuer
yow your sendyng to Caster is evyll takyn among my lordys folkys , in
so myche that some sey that ye tendryd lytyll my lordys dethe in as
myche as ye wold so sone entre vp-on hym aftyr hys dyssease wyth-ought
avyse and assent of my lordys consayll . Wherfor it is thought here by
syche as be your frendys in my lordys house that , if my lady haue onys
the graunt of the wardshepp of the chyld , that she wyll ocupye Caster
wyth other londys and ley the defaute on your vnkynd hastyness of
entre` wyth-ought hyr assent . Wherfor in eny wyse gete yow a patent of
+te Kyng ensealyd be-for hyrs , and ye may by eny meane possybyll .
PASTON,I,597.198.6132

<P_I,598>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , I prey yow comon wyth my lord Chamberleyn for me ,
PASTON,I,598.198.6133

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and weet hough that he wyll haue me demeanyd . PASTON,I,598.198.6134

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It iss told me for serteyn that ther is non hey to gete at Caleys ;
wherfor if I $myght be pardond for eny kepyng of horse at Caleys tyll
myd-somer it wer a good torne . PASTON,I,598.198.6135

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The berer heroff shall com home ayen fro London wyth-in a day aftyr
that he comyth thedyr . PASTON,I,598.198.6136

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
If ye wyll ought comand hym I prey yow send me woord by hym hough ye do
wyth your maters , PASTON,I,598.198.6137

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I prey yow in eny wyse lete me vndyrstand by the berer heroff hough
Bowen of the Cheker wyll dele wyth me ; PASTON,I,598.198.6138

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
vj=xx= and x li. it is nough , PASTON,I,598.198.6139

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I wold haue vij=xx= li. and x li. , and I to plege it ought in iiij
or v yer or ellys to forfet the maner . PASTON,I,598.198.6140

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche the Twysday next aftyr your departyng thens .
PASTON,I,598.198.6141

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:34
LETTER:PASTON_198:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
John Paston PASTON,I,598.198.6142

<Q_PAS_A_1476_T_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_199> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_WILLIAM_HASTINGS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1430?>

<P_I,599>

{ED:370._TO_LORD_HASTINGS_1476,_2_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my lord . </font> PASTON,I,599.199.6143

<P_I,600>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My most doughtyd and singuler good lord , aftyr most humble and dew
recomendacyon please it your good lordshepp to have knowlage that ,
accordyng to your comandement , jn my wey homeward I remembred me of a
persone whyche to my thynkyng is meetly to be clerk of your kechyn ,
whyche persone is now in seruyse wyth Master Fitzwater , and was befor
that wyth Whethyll at Gwynes and purveyor for hys house , and at syche
tyme as the Kyngys grace was ther last in hys vyage towardes France .
PASTON,I,600.199.6144

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thys man is meane of stature , yonge j-nough , well wittyd , well
manerd , a goodly yong man on horse and foote . PASTON,I,600.199.6145

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is well spokyn jn Inglyshe , metly well in Frenshe , and verry
parfite in Flemyshe . PASTON,I,600.199.6146

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He can wryght and reed . PASTON,I,600.199.6147

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hys name is Rychard Stratton . PASTON,I,600.199.6148

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hys modyr is Mastress Grame of Caleys . PASTON,I,600.199.6149

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And when I had shewyd hym myn jntent he was agreable and verry glad if
that it myght please your lordshepp to accept hym in-to your servyse ,
wherto I promysed hym my poore helpe as ferforthe as I durst meve your
good lordshepp for hym , trustyng that I shold have knowelage of your
plesure her-in or I departed towardes your lordshep ought of this
contrey . Wherfor I advysed hym to be redy wyth-in xiiij dayes of
Marche at the ferthest , that if it pleasyd your lordsheppe to accept
hym or to haue a syght of hym be-for your departyng to Caleys , that
ther shold be no slaughthe in hym . PASTON,I,600.199.6150

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He desyred me to meve Master Fitzwater to be good mastyr to hym in thys
behalve , PASTON,I,600.199.6151

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I dyd ; PASTON,I,600.199.6152

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he was verry glad and agreable ther-to , seying if hys sone had ben
of age , and all the seruauntis he hathe myght be in eny wyse
acceptabell to your lordshepp , that they all , and hym-silff in lyek
wyse , shall be at your comandment whyll he leveth .
PASTON,I,600.199.6153

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And at my comyng hom to my poore house I sent for Robart Bernard
PASTON,I,600.199.6154

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shewid on-to hym that I had mevyd your lordshepp for hym ,
PASTON,I,600.199.6155

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he in lyek forme is agreable to be redy by the xiiij day of Marche
to awayte on your lordshepp , be it to Caleys or ellys where , and fro
that day so foorthe for ever whyll hys lyff wyll last , wyth-ought
grugeing or contrarying your comandement and plesure in eny wyse that
is in hym possibyll t'accomplishe . PASTON,I,600.199.6156

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shewed on-to hym that I had preyed Master Talbot to be a mean to your
good lordshepp for hym , and if so wer that Mastyr Talbot thought that
your lordshepp wer content to take hys servyse then , that it wold
please Mastyr Talbot to meve my lady of Norffolkys grace to wryght
<P_I,601> or send to Bernard puttyng hym in knowlage that hyr grace is
content that he shall become your menyall seruaunt ; wherof he was
passyng well pleasyd . PASTON,I,601.199.6157

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But that not wythstandyng , as I enformed your lordshepp , he is not so
reteyned neyther-2 by fee nor promess but that he may let hym-sylff
loose to do your lordshepe seruyse when ye wyll receyue hym ,
PASTON,I,601.199.6158

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so wyll he do ; PASTON,I,601.199.6159

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but your lordshepe so pleasid , leve wer bettyr . PASTON,I,601.199.6160

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Rychard Stratton told me that whyll he was in servyse wyth Whethyll ,
John Redwe mocyond hym onys myche aftyr thys jntent ,
PASTON,I,601.199.6161

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but at that tyme Whethyll wold not be so good mastyr to hym as to meve
your lordshepe for hym . PASTON,I,601.199.6162

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord , I trust that your lordshepe shall lyek bothe ther persones
and ther condicyons , PASTON,I,601.199.6163

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as for ther trowthes , if it may please your good $lordshepe to
accept my poore woord wyth thers , I wyll depose largely for that .
PASTON,I,601.199.6164

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as it pleasyth your good lordshepe to comand me in thes maters and
all other , jf it may please your lordshepe to shewe the same so to my
brodyr Nessfeld , he knowith who shall sonest be wyth me to putt me in
knowlage of your plesure , whyche I shall be at all seasons redy
t'accomplyshe to my poore power , wyth Godys grace , whom I beseche
longe to contenue the prosperous astate of your good lordshepp .
PASTON,I,601.199.6165

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:32
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:46?
LETTER:PASTON_199:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fro Norwyche the second day of Marche , wyth the hand of your most
humble seruaunt and beedman John Paston PASTON,I,601.199.6166

<Q_PAS_A_1476_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_200> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,601>

{ED:371._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1476,_PROBABLY_LATE_MARCH}

<P_I,602>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Aftyr all dewte`s of recomendacyon , in as humbyll wyse as {in}_P I can
I beseche yow of your blyssyng . PASTON,I,602.200.6167

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The cheff cause that I wryght to yow for at thys season is for that I
vndyrstand that my lady wold be ryght glad to haue yow a-bought hyr at
hyr labore , jn so myche that she hathe axyd the questyon of dyuers
gentyllwomen whedyr they thought that ye wold awayte on hyr at that
season or nought . PASTON,I,602.200.6168

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And they answerd that they durst sey that ye wold wyth ryght good wyll
awayte on hyr at that tyme and at all other seasons that {at}_P she
wold comand yow . PASTON,I,602.200.6169

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I thynk that my lady wyll send for yow ; PASTON,I,602.200.6170

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it wer your ease to be here I wold be ryght glad that ye myght
be here , PASTON,I,602.200.6171

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I thynk yowr being here shold do gret good to my brodyrs maters
that he hathe to sped wyth hyr . Wherfor , for Godys sake , haue your
horse and all your gere redy wyth yow wherso euer ye be , ought or at
home . PASTON,I,602.200.6172

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for men , ye shall nott need many , PASTON,I,602.200.6173

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wyll come for yow and awayte on yow my-sylff , and on or ij wyth
me . PASTON,I,602.200.6174

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I had nede to vndyrstand wher to fynd yow , PASTON,I,602.200.6175

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys I shall happyly seeke yow at Mautby when ye be at Freton ;
PASTON,I,602.200.6176

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my lady myght then fortune to be ferforthe on hyr jorney or ye cam
, if she wer as swyfte as ye wer onys on Good Fryday .
PASTON,I,602.200.6177

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the mater in the latter end of my brodyr Syr Johnys lettyr ,
me thynk he takyth a wronge wey if he go so to werk ;
PASTON,I,602.200.6178

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for as for the peopyll here , I vndyrstand non other but that all
folkys here be ryght well dysposyd towardys that mater , fro the
hyghest degre` to the lowest , except Robart Brandon and John Colvyll .
PASTON,I,602.200.6179

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And it is a grete lyklyhod that the grettest body is well dysposyd
towardys that mater , in as myche as they wold put yow to the labore
aboue wretyn ; PASTON,I,602.200.6180

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they wer not , I thynk they wold not put yow to that labore .
PASTON,I,602.200.6181

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , here was here wyth me yesterday a man fro the Priour of
Bromholme to lete me haue knowlage of the ille speche whyche is in the
contre` now of new that the tombe is not mad . PASTON,I,602.200.6182

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also he seythe that the clothe that lythe ouer the graue is all
toryn and rotyn , and is not worthe ij d. , PASTON,I,602.200.6183

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seythe he hathe pachyd it onys or twyis ; wherfor the Pryour
hathe sent to yow at the leest to send thedyr a newe clothe a-yenst
Estern . PASTON,I,602.200.6184

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , Mastyr Sloley preyith yow for Godys sake , and ye wyll do non
almess of tylle , that he myght borow some of yow tyll he may bye some
, and pay yow a-yen , PASTON,I,602.200.6185

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for on the fayirest chambyrs of the Fryers standyth halff oncouerd for
defaulte of tylle , PASTON,I,602.200.6186

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for her is yett non to get for no money . PASTON,I,602.200.6187

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And the Holy Trynyte` haue yow in kepyng . PASTON,I,602.200.6188

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Norwyche thys Twysday . PASTON,I,602.200.6189

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:32
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_200:M4:1476:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your sone and humbyll seruaunt J. Paston PASTON,I,602.200.6190

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_201> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,605>

{ED:374._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1477,_8_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,605.201.6191

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worschepfull modyr , aftyr all dwte`s of recomendacyon , jn as
humble wyse as {in}_P I can I beseche yow of your dayly blyssyng .
PASTON,I,605.201.6192

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Modyr , $please $it {TEXT:pleasyt} you to wett that the cause that Dam
Elyzabeth Brews desyreth to mete wyth yow at Norwyche , and not at
Langley as I apoyntyd wyth yow at my last being at Mawtby , is by my
meanys ; PASTON,I,605.201.6193

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for my brodyr Thomas Jermyn , whyche knowyth nought of the mate {ED:r}
, tellyth me that the causey or ye can come to Bokenham Fery is so
over-flowyn that ther is no man that may an-ethe passe it , though he
be ryght well horsyd ; whyche is no mete wey for yow to passe ouer ,
God defend it . PASTON,I,605.201.6194

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But all thyngys rekynyd , it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} lesse cost to yow
to be at Norwyche as for a day or tweyn , and passe not , then to mete
at Langely wher every thyng is dere ; PASTON,I,605.201.6195

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and your horse may be sent hom ayen the same Wednysday .
PASTON,I,605.201.6196

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Modyr , I beseche yow for dyuers causys that my syster Anne may come
wyth yow to Norwyche . PASTON,I,605.201.6197

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Modyr , the mater is in a resonable good wey , PASTON,I,605.201.6198

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trust , wyth Godys mercy and wyth your good help , that it shall
take effect bettyr to myn auauntage then I told yow of at Mawtby ;
PASTON,I,605.201.6199

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I trow ther is not a kynder woman leueing then I shall haue to my
modyr in lawe if the mater take , nor yet a kynder fadyr in lawe then I
shall haue , though he be hard to me as yett . PASTON,I,605.201.6200

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All the cyrcumstancys of the mater , whyche I trust to tell yow at your
comyng to Norwych , cowd not be wretyn in iij levys of paper ,
PASTON,I,605.201.6201

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye know my lewd hed well j-nough - PASTON,I,605.201.6202

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I may not wryght longe ; wherfor I fery ouer all thyngys tyll I may
awayte on yow my-selff . PASTON,I,605.201.6203

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall do tonne in-to your place a doseyn ale , and bred acordyng ,
ayenst Wednysday . PASTON,I,605.201.6204

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If Syme myght be forborn , it wer well don that he war at Norwyche on
Wednysday in the mornyng at markett . PASTON,I,605.201.6205

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dam Elyzabeth Brewse shall lye at Jon Cookys . PASTON,I,605.201.6206

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If it myght please yow , I wold be glad that she myght dyne in your
howse on Thursday , PASTON,I,605.201.6207

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ther <P_I,606> shold ye haue most secret talkyng .
PASTON,I,606.201.6208

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , modyr , at the reuerence of God , beware that ye be so purveyd
for that ye take no cold by the wey towardys Norwyche ,
PASTON,I,606.201.6209

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it is the most peraylous marche that euer was seyn by eny manys
dayes that now lyueth . PASTON,I,606.201.6210

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I prey to Jesu preserue you and yours . PASTON,I,606.201.6211

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Topcroft the viij day of Marche . PASTON,I,606.201.6212

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:33
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_201:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your sone and humbyll seruaunt J. P. PASTON,I,606.201.6213

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_202> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,606>

{ED:375._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1477,_9_MARCH}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> Thys bylle be delyuerd to Thomas Grene , good-man of the George
by Powlys Wharffe , or to hys wyff , to send to Syr John Paston wherso
evere he be , at Caleys , London , or other placys . </font>
PASTON,I,606.202.6214

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull syr and my most good and kynde brodyr , in as humbyll
wyse as {in}_P I can I recomand me to yow . PASTON,I,606.202.6215

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , it is so that I haue , sythe John Bekurton departyd fro hens ,
ben at Toppcrofft at Syr Thomas Brewse . PASTON,I,606.202.6216

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the mater that I sent yow word of by Jon Bekurton towchyng
my-sylff and Mastress Margery Brews , I am yet at no serteynte` ,
PASTON,I,606.202.6217

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hyr fadyr is so hard ; PASTON,I,606.202.6218

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I trow I haue the good wyll of my lady hyr modyr and hyr .
PASTON,I,606.202.6219

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as the mater provyth I shall send yow woord , wyth Godys grace , in
short tyme . PASTON,I,606.202.6220

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as for John Bekurton , I prey yow dele wyth hym for suerte` as a
soudyor shold be delt wyth . PASTON,I,606.202.6221

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Trust hym never the more for the bylle that I sent yow by hym , but as
a man at wylde , PASTON,I,606.202.6222

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for euery thyng that he told me is not trewe ; PASTON,I,606.202.6223

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he departyd wyth-ought lycence of hys mastyr Syr Thomas Brewse ,
PASTON,I,606.202.6224

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and is fere endangeryd to dyuers in thys contrey .
PASTON,I,606.202.6225

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey God that I wryht not to yow of hym to late ;
PASTON,I,606.202.6226

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but for all thys I knowe non vntrowthe in hym , PASTON,I,606.202.6227

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yet I prey yow trust hym not ouer myche , vpon my woord .
PASTON,I,606.202.6228

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , Perse Mody recomandyth hym to your mastyrshep
PASTON,I,606.202.6229

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and besecheth yow to send hym word in hast hough he shall be demeanyd
at your place at Caster , PASTON,I,606.202.6230

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he is asygnyd to no body as yet to take of mete and drynk , nor yet
wher +tat he shall haue money to paye for hys mete and drynk ;
PASTON,I,606.202.6231

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now is the cheff replenysheing of your waren there
PASTON,I,606.202.6232

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the auauntage of the dove howse wer well for hym tyll ye come hom
your-sylff . PASTON,I,606.202.6233

<P_I,607>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I prey yow pardon me of my wryghtyng , hough so ever it be ,
PASTON,I,607.202.6234

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for carpenters of my crafte that I vse now haue not alderbest ther
wyttys ther owne . PASTON,I,607.202.6235

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And Jesu preserue yow . PASTON,I,607.202.6236

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche the ix day of Marche A=o=. E. iiij=ti= septimodecymo
. PASTON,I,607.202.6237

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_202:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. P. PASTON,I,607.202.6238

<Q_PAS_A_1478_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_203> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,612>

{ED:380._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1478,_3_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght worchepfull modyr Margaret Paston . </font>
PASTON,I,612.203.6239

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull modyr , aftyr all dwte`s of humble recomendacyon , in
as humble wyse as {in}_P I can I beseche yow of your dayly blyssyng .
PASTON,I,612.203.6240

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Please $it {TEXT:Pleasyt} yow to wett that at my being now at London ,
lyek as ye gaue me in comandment I mevyd to Mastyr Pykenham and to
Jamys Hubart for ther being at Norwyche now thys Lent , that ye myght
haue ther avyses in syche maters as ye let me haue vndyrstandyng of .
PASTON,I,612.203.6241

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for Mastyr Pykenham , he is now Juge of the Archys ,
PASTON,I,612.203.6242

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also he hathe an other offyce whyche is callyd Auditor causarum ,
PASTON,I,612.203.6243

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hys besyness is so gret in bothe thes offyces that he can not tell
the season when that he shall haue leyser to come in-to Norffolk ;
PASTON,I,612.203.6244

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I left not tyll I had gotyn Jamys Hubbart and hym to-gedyrs ,
PASTON,I,612.203.6245

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I told theym your jntent . PASTON,I,612.203.6246

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And then Mastyr Pykenham told Jamys and me hys jntent ,
PASTON,I,612.203.6247

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he preyed Jamys that he shold in no wyse fayle to be wyth yow thys
Lent . PASTON,I,612.203.6248

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not wythstandyng it was no gret ned to prey hym myche ,
PASTON,I,612.203.6249

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he told Doctore Pykenham that ther was no gentylwoman in Inglond of
so lytyll aqueyntance as he had wyth yow that he wold be <P_I,613>
glader to do servyse on-to , and myche the glader for he purposeth fro
hensforthe duryng hys lyff to be a Norffolk man and to lye wyth-in ij
myle of Loddon , whyche is but viij or x myle at the most fro Mautby .
PASTON,I,613.203.6250

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in conclusyon he hathe appoyntyd to awayte on yow at Norwyche the
weke next aftyr Mydlent Sonday , all the hole weke if nede be , all
other maters leyd apart . PASTON,I,613.203.6251

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I comond wyth my brodyr Syr John at London of syche maters as ye
wold haue amendyd in the bylle that he sent on-to yow ,
PASTON,I,613.203.6252

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he stake not gretly at it . PASTON,I,613.203.6253

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , modyr , I herd whyle I was in London wher was a goodly yong
woman to mary whyche was doughter to on Seff , a merser ,
PASTON,I,613.203.6254

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and she shall haue cc li. in money to hyr maryage and xx mark by yer of
lond aftyr the dyssease of a steppe-modyr of hyrs whyche is vpon l yer
of age . PASTON,I,613.203.6255

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And or I departyd ought of London I spak wyth some of the maydys
frendys , PASTON,I,613.203.6256

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and haue gotyn ther good wyllys to haue hyr maryd to my brodyr Edmund .
PASTON,I,613.203.6257

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Notwythstandyng those frendys of the maydys that I comond wyth avysyd
me to get the good wyll of on Sturmyn , whyche is in Mastyr Pykenhamys
danger so myche that he is glad to please hym . PASTON,I,613.203.6258

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I mevyd thys mater to Mastyr Pykenham , PASTON,I,613.203.6259

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and jncontynent he sent for Sturmyn PASTON,I,613.203.6260

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desyred hys good wyll for my brodyr $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} ,
PASTON,I,613.203.6261

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he grantyd hym hys good wyll so that he koud get the good wyll of
the remenaunt that wer executours to Seff , as well as the seyd Sturmyn
was ; PASTON,I,613.203.6262

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thusferforthe is the mater . Wherfor , modyr , we must beseche yow
to helpe vs forward wyth a lettyr fro yow to Mastyr Pykenham to
remembyr hym for to handyll well and dylygently thys mater now thys
Lent . PASTON,I,613.203.6263

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And for I am aqueyntyd wyth your condycyons of old , that ye reke not
who endytyth more lettres then ye , ther-for I haue drawyn a note to
yowr secretarys hand Freir Perse , whyche lettre we must prey yow to
send vs by the berer herof , PASTON,I,613.203.6264

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trust it shall not be longe fro Mastyr Pykenham .
PASTON,I,613.203.6265

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your doughtyr of Sweynsthorp and hyr soiornaunt E. Paston recomandyth
hem to yow in ther most humble wyse , lowly besechyng yow of your
blyssyng . PASTON,I,613.203.6266

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my brodyr $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} Sweynsthorp , for non
jntrete` that hys ostas your doughtyr nor I koud jntrete hym myght not
kepe hym but that he wold haue ben at home wyth you at Mautby on Sonday
last past at nyght ; PASTON,I,613.203.6267

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as he was departyng fro hens had we word fro Frenshes wyf that ,
God yeld yow , modyr , ye had govyn hym leve to dysporte hym her wyth
vs for a vij or viij dayes . PASTON,I,613.203.6268

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so the drevyll lost hys thank of vs , PASTON,I,613.203.6269

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet abod nevyr the lesse . PASTON,I,613.203.6270

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Youyr doughtyr sendyth yow part of syche poore stuff as I sent hyr fro
London , besechyng yow to take it in gree though it be lytyll plente`
that she sendyth yow . PASTON,I,613.203.6271

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But as for datys , I wyll sey trowthe PASTON,I,613.203.6272

<P_I,614>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ye haue not so many by ij pownd as wer ment on-to yow ,
PASTON,I,614.203.6273

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for she thynkys at thys season datys ryght good mete , what so ever it
$meanyth . PASTON,I,614.203.6274

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey God send vs good tydyngys , whom I beseche to preserue yow and
yours and to send yow your most desyred joye . PASTON,I,614.203.6275

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Sweynsthorp on Ashe Wednysday . PASTON,I,614.203.6276

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your sone and humble seruaunt J. Paston PASTON,I,614.203.6277

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Modyr , $please $it {TEXT:pleasit} yow to remember that ye had need to
be at Norwych v or vj dayes befor that Jamys Hubbart and your consayll
shall be ther wyth yow , for to look vp your evydence and all other
thyngys redy . PASTON,I,614.203.6278

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , if ye thynk that thys bylle that I send yow herwyth be good
j-now to send to Doctore Pykenham , ye may close vp the same and send
it sealyd to me ayen PASTON,I,614.203.6279

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:34
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_203:M4:1478:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall convey it forthe to hym . PASTON,I,614.203.6280

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_204> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,614>

{ED:381._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1479,_6_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To Syr John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,I,614.204.6281

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , aftyr all dute`s of recomendacyon , $please $it {TEXT:pleasyt} to
vndyrstand that , acordyng to your lettre sent me by Wyllson , Lomnore
and I mett at Norwyche and drew ought a formable bylle ought of your ,
and sent it a-yen to th'exchetore Palmer by my brodyr Edmund , whyche
had an other erand in-to that contre` to spek wyth H. Spylman to get
hys good wyll towardys the bargayn lyek to be fynyshed hastyly betwyx
Mastress Clyppysby and hym . PASTON,I,614.204.6282

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , syr , at the delyuere` of the bylle of jnquisicyon to
th'exchetour , my brodyr $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} told hym that , accordyng
to your wryghtyng to me , I spak wyth myn oncle William and told hym
that I vndyrstood by yow that my lord of Elye had aswell desyred hym in
wryghtyng as you by mouthe that non of you shold swe to haue the
jnquisycion fond aftyr your jntentys tyll other weyes of pese wer takyn
betwyx yow ; wherfor my brodyr $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} desyred hym that
wyth-ought myn oncle labord to haue it fond for hym , ellys that he
shold not proced for yow . PASTON,I,614.204.6283

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But th'exchetour answerd hym that he wold fynd it for you aftyr your
byll of hys owne autorite` , PASTON,I,614.204.6284

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so it was <P_I,615> fond . PASTON,I,615.204.6285

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But , syr , ye must remembre that my lord of Ely desyred myn oncle as
well as you to surcease , as I putt my oncle in knowlage .
PASTON,I,615.204.6286

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And myn oncle at the fyrst agreid that he wold make no more sute
a-bought it , in trust that ye wold do the same acordyng to my lord of
Elys desyer ; wherfor ye had ned to be ware that th'exchetor slyppe not
fro yow when he comyth to London and sertyfye it or ye spek wyth hym .
PASTON,I,615.204.6287

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Th'exchetor $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} at London by Twysday or Wednysday
next comyng , at John Leeis house , PASTON,I,615.204.6288

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for he shall ryd forwardys as on Monday next comyng betymys , &c .
PASTON,I,615.204.6289

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , your tenauntys at Crowmer sey that they know not who $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} ther lord ; PASTON,I,615.204.6290

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they marvayll that ye nor no man for yow hathe not yet ben there .
PASTON,I,615.204.6291

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , when I was wyth myn oncle I had a longe pystyll of hym that ye
had sent Pekok to Paston PASTON,I,615.204.6292

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and comandyd the tenauntys ther that they shold pay non areragys to hym
but if they wer bond to hym by oblygacyon for the same .
PASTON,I,615.204.6293

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn oncle seythe it was other-wyse apoyntyd be-for the arbytrorys .
PASTON,I,615.204.6294

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They thought , he seyth , as well my Mastyr Fytzwalter as other , that
he shold receyue that as it myght be gadryd ; PASTON,I,615.204.6295

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but now he seythe that he wottyth well some shall renne awey and some
shall wast it , so that it is nevyr lyek to be gadryd , but lost .
PASTON,I,615.204.6296

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so I trow it is lyek to be of some of the dettors , what for
casuelte` of dethe and thes other causes befor rehersyd . Wherfor me
thynkyth if it wer apoyntyd be-for the arbytrors that he shold receyue
theym as he seythe , it wer not for yow to brek it ;
PASTON,I,615.204.6297

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or ellys if he be pleyn executor to my grauntdam then also he ought to
haue it . PASTON,I,615.204.6298

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I spek lyek a blynd man . PASTON,I,615.204.6299

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Do ye as ye thynk , PASTON,I,615.204.6300

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I was at no syche apoyntment befor th'arbytrors ,
PASTON,I,615.204.6301

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor I know not whethyr he is executor to my grauntdam or not but by hys
seying . PASTON,I,615.204.6302

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , syr , ye must of ryght , consyderyng my brodyr Edmundys
diligence in your maters sythe your departyng , helpe hym forwardys to
myn oncle Syr George Brown , as my brodyr $Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} preyid
yow in hys lettyr that he sent on-to yow by Mondys sone of Norwyche ,
dwellyng wyth Thomas Jenney , that myn oncle Syr George may gett to my
brodyr Edmund of the kyng +te wardshepp of John Clyppysby , son and
heyer to John Clyppysby , late of Owby in the conte` of Norffolk ,
sqwyr , dwryng the nonnage of my lord and lady of York , thow it cost
iiij or v mark the swte . PASTON,I,615.204.6303

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Let myn oncle Syr George be clerk of the hamper and kepe the patent ,
if it be grantyd , tyll he haue hys mone` , PASTON,I,615.204.6304

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that shall not be longe to . PASTON,I,615.204.6305

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn oncle Syr George so may enforme the Kyng for trowthe that the chyld
shall haue no lond dwryng hys yong modyrs lyff , PASTON,I,615.204.6306

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther is no man her that wyll mary wyth hym wyth-ought they haue
some lond wyth hym ; PASTON,I,615.204.6307

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so the gyft shall not be gret that the Kyng shold geve hym .
PASTON,I,615.204.6308

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yet I trow he shold get the <P_I,616> modyr by that meane ,
PASTON,I,616.204.6309

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in my conseyt the Kyng dothe but ryght if he graunt my brodyr
$Edmund {TEXT:Edmud} Clyppysbys son in recompence for takyng my brodyr
Edmundys son , otherwyse callyd Dyxsons , the chyldys fadyr being alyve
. PASTON,I,616.204.6310

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dyxson is ded , PASTON,I,616.204.6311

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue hys sowle , whom I beseche to send you your most desyred joye
. PASTON,I,616.204.6312

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche on Seynt Leonardys Day . PASTON,I,616.204.6313

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
J. Paston PASTON,I,616.204.6314

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , it is told me +tat Nycolas Barlee , the scyuer , hathe takyn an
axion of dett ayenst me thys terme . PASTON,I,616.204.6315

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow let Whetley or some body spek wyth hym PASTON,I,616.204.6316

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and lete hym wet that if he swe me softly thys terme that he shall be
payed or the next terme be at an end . PASTON,I,616.204.6317

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is a-bought vj li. , PASTON,I,616.204.6318

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in feythe he shold haue had it or thys tyme and our threshers of
Sweynsthorp had not dyed vpp . PASTON,I,616.204.6319

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if I myght haue payed it hym a yer ago , as well as I trust I shall
sone aftyr Crystmass , I wold not for xij li. haue brokyn hym so many
promessys as I haue . PASTON,I,616.204.6320

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , syr , I prey yow send me by the next man that comyth fro London
ij pottys of tryacle of Jenne - PASTON,I,616.204.6321

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they shall cost xvj d. ; PASTON,I,616.204.6322

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I haue spent ought that I had wyth my yong wyff and my yong folkys
and my-sylff . PASTON,I,616.204.6323

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I shall pay hym that shall bryng hem to me , and for hys carynge .
PASTON,I,616.204.6324

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey yow lett it be sped . PASTON,I,616.204.6325

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The pepyll dyeth sore in Norwyche , and specyally a-bought my house ;
PASTON,I,616.204.6326

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but my wyff and my women come not ought , PASTON,I,616.204.6327

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and fle ferther we can not , PASTON,I,616.204.6328

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_204:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for at Sweynsthorp sythe my departyng thens they haue dyed and ben syke
nye jn every house of the towne . PASTON,I,616.204.6329

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_205> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1444> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,617>

{ED:383._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1479,_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my ryght $worchepfull modyr Margarett Paston at Seynt Peters
of Hundgate . </font> PASTON,I,617.205.6330

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght worchepfull modyr , aftyr all dwte`s of humble recomendacyon , as
lowly as I can I beseche yow of your dayly blyssyng and $preyers .
PASTON,I,617.205.6331

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , modyr , John Clement , berer heroff , can tell yow the mor pite`
is , if it pleasyd God , that my brodyr is beryed in the Whyght Fryers
at London , whych I thought shold not haue ben , PASTON,I,617.205.6332

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I supposyd that he wold haue ben beryed at Bromholme .
PASTON,I,617.205.6333

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that causyd me so sone to ryd to London to haue purveyd hys
brynging hom ; PASTON,I,617.205.6334

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it had ben hys wylle to haue leyn at Bromholm , I had purposyd
all the wey as I haue redyn to haue brought hom my grauntdam and hym
to-gedyrs , PASTON,I,617.205.6335

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but that purpose is voyd as now . PASTON,I,617.205.6336

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But thys I thynk to do when I com to London , to spek wyth my lord
Chamberleyn and to wynne by hys meanys my lord of Ely if I can .
PASTON,I,617.205.6337

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if I may by eny of ther meanys cause the Kyng to take my servyse
and my quarell to-gedyrs , I wyll ; PASTON,I,617.205.6338

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I thynk that Syr George Brown , Syr Jamys Radclyff , and other of
myn aqueyntance whyche wayte most vpon the Kyng and lye nyghtly in hys
chamber wyll put to ther good wyllys . PASTON,I,617.205.6339

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thys is my wey as yet . PASTON,I,617.205.6340

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And , modyr , I beseche yow , as ye may get or send eny messengers , to
send me your avyse , and my cosyn Lomenors , to John <P_I,618> Leeis
hows , taylore , wyth-in Ludgate . PASTON,I,618.205.6341

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue myche more to wryght , PASTON,I,618.205.6342

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but myn empty hed wyll not let me remember it . PASTON,I,618.205.6343

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , modyr , I prey that my brodyr $Edmu {TEXT:Edmud} may ryd to
$Marlyngforthe {TEXT:Marlygforthe} , Oxenhed , Paston , Crowmer , and
Caster and in all thes maners to entre in my name , and to lete the
tenauntys of Oxenhed and $Marlyngforthe know that I sent no word to hym
to take no mony of theym but ther attornement ; wherfor he wyll not ,
tyll he her fro me ayen , axe hem non , PASTON,I,618.205.6344

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but let hym comand theym to pay to no seruaunt of myn oncles , nor to
hym-sylff nor to non othyr to hys vse , in peyne of payment a-yen to me
. PASTON,I,618.205.6345

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thynk if ther shold be eny money axid in my name , parauenture it
wold make my lady of Norffolk ayenst me and cause hyr to thynk I dellt
more contrary to hyr plesure than dyd my brodyr , whom God pardon of
hys gret mercy . PASTON,I,618.205.6346

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue sent to entre at Stansted and at Orwellbery ,
PASTON,I,618.205.6347

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue wretyn a bylle to Anne Montgomery and Jane Rodon to mak my
lady of Norffolk if it wyll be . PASTON,I,618.205.6348

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your sone and humble $seruaunt J. Paston PASTON,I,618.205.6349

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON:1444:35
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_205:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If myn vnkynd oncle make eny mastryes to gadre money , areragys or
other , my Mastyr Fytzwater , Syr Robart Wyngfeld , Syr Thomas $Brews ,
my brodyr Yeluerton , my brodyr Harecort , and other of my frendys I
trust wyll sey hym naye , if they haue knowlage . PASTON,I,618.205.6350

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_FO_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_206> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_1444>
<R_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,628>

{ED:389._TO_MARGERY_PASTON_BETWEEN_1487_1495}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To Dame Margery Paston at Oxenhed . </font>
PASTON,I,628.206.6351

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Mastress Margery , I recomand me to yow , PASTON,I,628.206.6352

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I prey yow in all hast possybyll to send me by the next swer
messenger that ye can gete a large playster of your flose vngwentorum
for the Kynges Attorney Jamys Hobart ; PASTON,I,628.206.6353

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for all hys dysease is but an ache in hys knee . PASTON,I,628.206.6354

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
He is the man that brought yow and me togedyrs , PASTON,I,628.206.6355

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I had lever then xl li. ye koud wyth your playster depart hym and
hys peyne . PASTON,I,628.206.6356

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But when ye send me the playster ye must send me wryghtyng hough it
shold be leyd to and takyn fro hys knee , and hough longe it shold abyd
on hys kne vnremevyd , and hough longe the playster wyll laste good ,
and whethyr he must lape eny more clothys a-bowte the playster to kepe
it warme or nought . PASTON,I,628.206.6357

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And God be wyth yow . PASTON,I,628.206.6358

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_206:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your John Paston PASTON,I,628.206.6359

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_T_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_207> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_RADCLIFFE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1452?>

<P_I,628>

{ED:390._TO_LORD_FITZWALTER:DRAFT_BETWEEN_1487_1495}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
LETTER:PASTON_207:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Humbly besecheth your good lordshepe your dayly seruaunt and beedman
John Paston , more kayteff than knyght , that it may please yow of your
<P_I,629> specyall grace to dyrect ought your lettres sygned wyth your
hand and sealid wyth your seall to the dreedfull man Jamys Radcliff of
Byllingforthe , sqwyer , fermour of your wareyn ther - ought of whoys
wareyn no maner of man nor vermyn dare take on hym for dought of your
seyd dredfull {ED:man} to take or carye a-wey eny of your game ther for
fere of hangyd vp among other mysdoers and forfaytours , as wesellis ,
lobsters , polkattys , bosartys , and mayne currys - thatt the seyd
Jamys shall vpon the syght of your seyd wryghtyng delyver or cause to
be delyverd to your seyd besecher or to hys depute` delyuerer of your
seyd lettres at hys fyrst syght of the same vj coupyll blake conyes or
rennyng rabettys , or some blake and some whyght to the seyd nombre ,
to store wyth a newe grownd of your seyd besechers at Oxenhed , more
lyeke a pynnefold then a parke . PASTON,I,629.207.6360

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
LETTER:PASTON_207:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And your seyd besecher shall daylye prey to God for the preservacyon of
your noble estate longe t'endure . PASTON,I,629.207.6361

<Q_PAS_A_1500?_FS_J3PASTON> <L_PASTON_208> <A_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_RICHARD_CROFT>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,629>

{ED:391._TO_RICHARD_CROFT_PROBABLY_ABOUT_1500}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Richard Croft , the wedyr is siche that I wyll not jopart to ryde as
yet , PASTON,I,629.208.6362

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I am not best at ease PASTON,I,629.208.6363

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and a lytill colde myght mak me worse . PASTON,I,629.208.6364

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I send yow by this berer iij byllis that John Calle tooke me , whiche
shewe every receyte of John Callis and Robert Salles , and paymentys
also . PASTON,I,629.208.6365

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I can not fynde the newe fermall of Caster here , wherfor I haue takyn
to this berer the key of my cofir at Yermouthe . PASTON,I,629.208.6366

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I thynk and ye wyll ryde thedyr wyth hym ye shall fynd in my cofir the
last fermall of Caster , and other bokys wyth it .
PASTON,I,629.208.6367

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if need be , and ellis not , ye may cause Robert Salle and John
Carter to come hydyr on Fryday or Saterday next comyng and end ther
acomptes her at Norwyche . PASTON,I,629.208.6368

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I sye John Wynnys byllis that his man brought me yesterday , Twysday ,
wherby I vndyrstand that he desyreth to be alowyd v li. for Byshoppis
of <P_I,630> Yermouthe , and for hering delyuerd to myn cosyn Loveday ;
wherto I am agreid , PASTON,I,630.208.6369

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I wyll not that John Wynne shall selle non of my ferme barly to
paye theym , PASTON,I,630.208.6370

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I woll haue all the barly in John Wynnys charge maltyd for my Lord
Mountioye . PASTON,I,630.208.6371

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If he haue not money jnow of myn when he hathe acomptyd to paye
Byshopes ther v li. I wyll make vppe ther money ought of myn owne purse
. PASTON,I,630.208.6372

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I send yow a waraunt fro the shreve to do warne those persones
in Flegge and Yermouthe that ar enpanellid betwyx the Kynge and me to
be at Thettford at the assises on Wednysday next comyng .
PASTON,I,630.208.6373

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I prey yow take the warant to Symond Gerrard PASTON,I,630.208.6374

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prey hym in my name to send for the bayly of the hundred and to
cause hym to geve warnyng to theym that be enpanellid to kepe ther day
at Thettfford . PASTON,I,630.208.6375

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And prey Symond Gerrard to speke wyth as many of the quest hym-selff as
{with}_P he can , and to shew theym that I haue ought my nisi prius by
assent of the Kyngys Attorne` , PASTON,I,630.208.6376

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he hym-silff comandid it ought . PASTON,I,630.208.6377

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if the wedyr amend by none I wyll se yow this nyght , wyth Godys
grace . PASTON,I,630.208.6378

AUTHOR:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:56?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_CROFT:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_208:E1:1500?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Fro Norwyche this Wednysday , by your frend J. Paston , K.
PASTON,I,630.208.6379

<Q_PAS_A_1471_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_209> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,633>

{ED:394._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1471,_18_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> Tho my rytgh wurshfull brothere John Paston , jn hast . </font>
PASTON,I,633.209.6380

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rytgh wurshupful brothere , I recummawnd me to +gow , prayeng +gow
hartely +tat +ge wyl remembyre soche maters as I wryth to +gow .
PASTON,I,633.209.6381

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send +gow now be the brynggare here-of mony , wyche mony I prey +gow
+tat {ED:+ge}_NP-SBJ be-stowe yt as I wryth to +gow .
PASTON,I,633.209.6382

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wend a don yt my-sylf , PASTON,I,633.209.6383

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but consyderyng costys and othere dyuers thynggys I $may $not
{TEXT:maynot} bryng yt abowthe ; where-fore I pray +gow hartely to take
+te labore vp-on +gow , PASTON,I,633.209.6384

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I trust to $deserve $yt {TEXT:deservyt} . PASTON,I,633.209.6385

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow be-stow thys mony thus : PASTON,I,633.209.6386

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to Crystofyre Hanyngton v s. ; PASTON,I,633.209.6387

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
to +te Prynspall of Stapyl In v s. in parte of payment ;
PASTON,I,633.209.6388

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
also , I pray +gow to bye me iij +gerddys of porpyl schamlet , price
+te +gerd iiij s. ; a bonet of depe murry , pryce ij s. iiij d. ; an
hose clothe of +gelow carsey of an ellyn , I trow yt wyl cost ij s. ; a
gyrdyl of plunkket ryban , price vj d. ; iiij lacys of sylke , ij of on
colore and ij of an othere , price viij d. ; iij doseyn poynttys ,
wythe , red , and +gelow , price vj d. ; iij peyere of pateyns -
PASTON,I,633.209.6389

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow late Wylliam <P_I,634> Mylsant purvey fore +tem .
PASTON,I,634.209.6390

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I was wonte to pay but ij d. ob. fore a payere , PASTON,I,634.209.6391

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I pray +gow late them not be left behynd +tow I pay more .
PASTON,I,634.209.6392

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
They must be lowe pateyns ; PASTON,I,634.209.6393

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
late them be long j-now and brod vp-on +te hele . PASTON,I,634.209.6394

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Among alle othere I pray +gow recummawnd me to Masteres Elyzabet
Hygouns . PASTON,I,634.209.6395

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I may sey pouerte` partys feleschepe ; PASTON,I,634.209.6396

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yf +tat I had ben so well purveyde as I wend , I trowst to have ben
wyth +gow here thys . PASTON,I,634.209.6397

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I pray +gow recummawnd me to my brothere Ser John .
PASTON,I,634.209.6398

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I fere lesse he wyl take a dysplesure wyth me +tat I send hym no mony ;
PASTON,I,634.209.6399

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow excuse me as wel as +ge can . PASTON,I,634.209.6400

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust to send hym sum a-bowth Candylmesse . PASTON,I,634.209.6401

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had a promyse of Masteres Elyzabet of a typet of $welvet ,
PASTON,I,634.209.6402

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but and I myth haue a hatlase I woold thynk me well .
PASTON,I,634.209.6403

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow sey thus myche on +gour owyn hed , PASTON,I,634.209.6404

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf +ge can not spede of +te hatlase I pray +gow bye me on of xij d.
ore xvj d . PASTON,I,634.209.6405

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , ser , I send Parkare hys mony be the brynggare hare-of ,
PASTON,I,634.209.6406

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue desyered hym to lend me a gown of puke ,
PASTON,I,634.209.6407

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I haue send hym a typet of welvet to boredyre yt $rownd a-bowthe ;
PASTON,I,634.209.6408

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray +gow be at schesyng there-of . PASTON,I,634.209.6409

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf +tat he wyl not , be Cryst calkestokke on hys hed !
PASTON,I,634.209.6410

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Tat is schoryle in Englyshe ; PASTON,I,634.209.6411

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yt is a terme new browthe vp wyth my marschandys of Norwyche .
PASTON,I,634.209.6412

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser , John Pamppyng recummawnd hym to +gow , PASTON,I,634.209.6413

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pray +gow +tat +ge wyl remembyre hys harnes , PASTON,I,634.209.6414

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf +tat +ge can get +te mony he pray +gow to delyuer Parkare x s.
+tat he howyth hym . PASTON,I,634.209.6415

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also , ser , my modyre gretys +gow wel PASTON,I,634.209.6416

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and send +gow Goddys blyssyng and heres , PASTON,I,634.209.6417

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and prays +gow +tat +ge wyl bye here a runlet of malmesey owthe of +te
galey ; PASTON,I,634.209.6418

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf +ge haue no mony sche byd +tat +ge schuld borow of my brothere
Ser John ore of sum othere frend of +gowers , and send $here woord as
hastely as +ge haue yt and sche schale send +gow mony .
PASTON,I,634.209.6419

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf +tat +ge send yt home sche byd +tat yt schuld be woond in a
canmasse fore brochyng of +te caryars , PASTON,I,634.209.6420

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore sche sethe +tat sche hath knowyn men serued soo be-fore .
PASTON,I,634.209.6421

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I pray +gow , yf +ge speke wyth Master Rogere , tell hym +tat yf
he cum in-to thys cuntre` thys $Crystemas he schal haue hys x s. ,
PASTON,I,634.209.6422

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf +tat he cum not I schal send yt hym be xij day at +te fardest .
PASTON,I,634.209.6423

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow hartely remembyre my gere , PASTON,I,634.209.6424

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat +ge wyl desyere Wylliam Mylsant on my behalue to purvey fore
+te caryage in as hasty wyse as {in}_P yt can . PASTON,I,634.209.6425

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I pray +gow +tat +te weluet +tat levyt of my typet may be send hom
a-geyn , PASTON,I,634.209.6426

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I woold strype a dobelet there-wyth . PASTON,I,634.209.6427

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As fore Masteres Blakeny , I trow sche be in +gour quarters .
PASTON,I,634.209.6428

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I woold I had +te same entyrepryce vp-on hyre +tat John Bramppton of
Atylborowe had vp-on Mastere Bryston . PASTON,I,634.209.6429

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Alle +te coorte recummawnddys hem to +gow . PASTON,I,634.209.6430

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray +gow , and +ge can get me any profytabyl servyce , a-saye .
PASTON,I,634.209.6431

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My brothere Ser John was meved of my <P_I,635> hawnt Ponynggys to haue
ben wyth here . PASTON,I,635.209.6432

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I woold haue rytgh an hesy seruyse tyl I were owthe of detys .
PASTON,I,635.209.6433

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God haue +gow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,635.209.6434

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Norwyche +te Munday nex be-fore Sen Edmond +te Kyng .
PASTON,I,635.209.6435

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:27
LETTER:PASTON_209:M4:1471:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Edmond Paston PASTON,I,635.209.6436

<Q_PAS_A_1472?_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_210> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,635>

{ED:395._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PROBABLY_1472,_16_MAY}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To John Paston , esquyere . </font> PASTON,I,635.210.6437

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syre , I recummawnd me to +gow . PASTON,I,635.210.6438

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Please yt +gow to wette +tat my modyre hathe causyd me to putte Gregory
owte of my servyse ; PASTON,I,635.210.6439

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
as God help , I wrythe to +gow the very cause why .
PASTON,I,635.210.6440

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yt happyd hym to haue a knavys loste , in pleyn termes to swhyve a
quene ; PASTON,I,635.210.6441

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so dyd in +te konynere-closse . PASTON,I,635.210.6442

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yt foretunyd hym to be a-spyed be ij plowemen of my modyrs , whyche
werene as fayne as he of +tat matere , and desyerd hym to haue parte ;
PASTON,I,635.210.6443

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as kompany requereyd , seyd not nay , jn so myche +tat +te plowemen
had here alle a nythe in there stabylle and Gregory was clene delyuerd
of here and , as he swhereys , had not a do wyth here wyth-in my
modyres place . PASTON,I,635.210.6444

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not wyth-standdyng my modyre thynkkys +tat he was grownd of +tat matere
, where-fore there is no remedy but he moste a-voyde .
PASTON,I,635.210.6445

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in so myche +tat at +te laste tyme +tat +ge were here
{ED:+ge}_NP-SBJ desyerd hym of me yf +tat he schuld departe from me , I
send +gow +te very cawse of hys departyng as my modyre sethe .
PASTON,I,635.210.6446

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I am in serteyn +te contrary is true - PASTON,I,635.210.6447

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yt is nomore but +tat he can not plese alle partys ;
PASTON,I,635.210.6448

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but +tat jantylman is hys woordys lord : PASTON,I,635.210.6449

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he hathe seyd +tat he woold lyfte whom +tat hym plese ,
PASTON,I,635.210.6450

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as yt scheweyt welle he lyftyd on xiiij myle in a morenyng ,
PASTON,I,635.210.6451

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and now he hathe ben cawsare <P_I,636> of hys lyfte I wot not how fare
but yf +tat +ge be hys better master . PASTON,I,636.210.6452

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But and we a-mong vus geue not hym a lyfte , I pray God +tat we neuer
thryve , PASTON,I,636.210.6453

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat is hys in-tente I trowe to bryng vus to . Where-fore I requere
+gow , yf +tat yt plese +gow to haue hym , +tat +ge wylle be +te better
master to hym fore my sake , PASTON,I,636.210.6454

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore I am he +tat js as sory to departe from hym as any man on lyue
from hys seruant ; PASTON,I,636.210.6455

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and be my trowthe , as farforethe as I knowe he is as true as any on
lyue . PASTON,I,636.210.6456

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I troste my $foretune schale be better +tan euer to leue thus here ,
PASTON,I,636.210.6457

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yf I were hens wardys I ensuere +gow I woold not schange fore non
+tat I knowe . PASTON,I,636.210.6458

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He is profytabylle on dyuers thynggys , as +ge knowe welle .
PASTON,I,636.210.6459

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
There has ben a $gret breke be-twyx Calle and me , as I schal enforeme
+gow at my comyng , wyche schalle be on Wedynsday next , be +te grace
of God , who preserue +gow . PASTON,I,636.210.6460

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Mawteby on Wyteson Eue . PASTON,I,636.210.6461

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:28?
LETTER:PASTON_210:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Edmond Paston PASTON,I,636.210.6462

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_211> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,638>

{ED:397._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1479,_21_AUGUST}

<P_I,639>

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Suere dydyngys arn com to Norwyche +tat my grandam is dyssessyd , whom
God assoyle . PASTON,I,639.211.6463

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myn vncle had a messenger +gesterday +tat she shuld not escape ,
PASTON,I,639.211.6464

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and this day cam a-nothere , at suche tyme as we were at masse fore my
brothere Watere , whom God assoyle . PASTON,I,639.211.6465

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myn vncle was comyng to haue offered , PASTON,I,639.211.6466

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but +te last messenger retornyd hym hastely , so +tat he toke hys hors
incontynent to enforme more of owur hevynes . PASTON,I,639.211.6467

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My syster ys delyuerd , and +te chyld passyd to God , who send vus hys
grace . PASTON,I,639.211.6468

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Dokkyng told me sekretly +tat fore any hast myn vncle shuld ryde by my
lady of Norffolk to haue a iij skore persons . PASTON,I,639.211.6469

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Whythere it is to convey my grandham hydere ore nowght he cowde not sey
. PASTON,I,639.211.6470

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I deme it is rathere to put them in possessyon of some of here londys .
PASTON,I,639.211.6471

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_211:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Saterdaye the xxj daye of August A=o= E. iiij=ti= xix=o= .
PASTON,I,639.211.6472

<Q_PAS_A_1480S_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_212> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1459>

<P_I,639>

{ED:398._TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_III_PERHAPS_AFTER_1480,_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my brothere Wylliam Paston be this delyuerd . </font>
PASTON,I,639.212.6473

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hartely recomawnd me to +gow . PASTON,I,639.212.6474

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Here is lately fallyn a wydow in Woorstede whyche was wyff to on Boolt
, al worstede marchant , and worth a m=l= li. , PASTON,I,639.212.6475

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and gaff to hys wyff a c marke in mony , stuffe of howsold and plate to
+te valew of an c marke , and x li. be +gere in land .
PASTON,I,639.212.6476

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She is callyd a fayere iantylwoman . PASTON,I,639.212.6477

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wyll fore +gour sake se here . PASTON,I,639.212.6478

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She is ryght systyre of fader and modyre to Herry Ynglows .
PASTON,I,639.212.6479

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I purpose to speke wyth hym to gett hys good wyll .
PASTON,I,639.212.6480

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This jantylwoman is abowght xxx +geres , PASTON,I,639.212.6481

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and has but ij chylderen whyche $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} <P_I,640> at
+te dedys charge . PASTON,I,640.212.6482

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
She was hys wyff but v +gere . PASTON,I,640.212.6483

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf she be eny better +tan I wryght fore , take it in worthe I shew the
leeste . PASTON,I,640.212.6484

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus lete me haue knowlache of +gour mynde as shortly as +ge can , and
whan +ge shall movn be in this cuntre` . PASTON,I,640.212.6485

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus God send +gow good helth and good auenture .
PASTON,I,640.212.6486

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From Norwyche +te Saterday after xij=the= Day . PASTON,I,640.212.6487

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
LETTER:PASTON_212:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gour E. Paston PASTON,I,640.212.6488

<Q_PAS_A_1481_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_213> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,640>

{ED:399._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_1481,_27_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wurchypfull and especiall good mothere Margaret
Paston . </font> PASTON,I,640.213.6489

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchypfull and moste especialle good modyre , jn my moste vmble
wyse wyth alle my dute` and seruyse I recomawnd me to yow , besechynge
+gow of +gour blyssyng , whyche is to me moste joy of erthely thynge .
PASTON,I,640.213.6490

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And it plese +gow to be so good and kynde modyre to forgeue me and also
my wyffe of owur leude offence +tat we haue not don owur dute` , whyche
was to haue seyn and ave waytyd vp-on +gow ore now .
PASTON,I,640.213.6491

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My huswyffe trustythe to ley to +gow here huswyferey fore here excuse ,
wyche I muste beseche +gow not to accepte ; PASTON,I,640.213.6492

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore jn good faythe I deme here mynde hathe ben othereweys ocapyed +tan
as to huswyfery , whyche semyth welle be +te latchesnes of +te tylthe
of here landdys . PASTON,I,640.213.6493

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche God , fore +te forderawnce of them as now , rewarde +gow and
+te good parson of Mautby , and also Mastyre Baley , who I wende woold
not haue balkyd this pore loggeyng to Norwyche wardys .
PASTON,I,640.213.6494

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I vndyrestand by +te brynngere here-of +tat +ge entende to ryde to
Walsyngham . PASTON,I,640.213.6495

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yf it please +gow +tat I may wete +te seayson , as my dute` is I shalle
be redy to awayte vp-on +gow . PASTON,I,640.213.6496

<P_I,641>

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plese it +gow +tat +te brynggare here-of cam to me fore x s. viij d.
whyche I shuld ow hys fadyre . PASTON,I,641.213.6497

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Trew it was at my laste departyng from hym I owte hym so mych ,
PASTON,I,641.213.6498

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but sertaynly ore I cam at Thetfford homewardys I thowt of concyence he
owte to haue restoryd me as myche . PASTON,I,641.213.6499

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I had my horsse wyth hym at lyvery , PASTON,I,641.213.6500

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and amonge alle on of them was putte to gresse and to labure , so +tat
he dyed of a laxe by +te wey . PASTON,I,641.213.6501

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I payed fore hard mete euer to hym . PASTON,I,641.213.6502

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plese it +gow to delyuer Kateryn v s. wyche I send +gow in this bylle .
PASTON,I,641.213.6503

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I am not assartaynd how she is purveyde of mony towardys here jornay .
PASTON,I,641.213.6504

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Yf here fadyre cowde not a cleymed j d. of me I woold not se here
dysporveyd yf I myght , nore +te poreste chyld +tat is belonggyng to
hys loggeyng . PASTON,I,641.213.6505

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Modyre , my wyffe is boold to send +gow a tokyn . PASTON,I,641.213.6506

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche +gow pardon alle thynggys not don acordyng to dute` .
PASTON,I,641.213.6507

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche God send +gow +te accomplyshment of +gour moste woorchypfull
desyers . PASTON,I,641.213.6508

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
At Owby , +te Saterday next before Candylmes . PASTON,I,641.213.6509

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:SON:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_213:M4:1481:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
+Gour vmble son and seruant Edmond Paston PASTON,I,641.213.6510

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_FN_E2PASTON> <L_PASTON_214> <A_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,641>

{ED:400._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_BETWEEN_JUNE_1487_FEBRUARY_1493}

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To the ryght wurshupfull Ser John Paston , knyght , be +tis
delyuerid . </font> PASTON,I,641.214.6511

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght wurshypfull ser , I recomawnd me to +gow . PASTON,I,641.214.6512

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As +gesterday I was wyth my cosyn Clere . PASTON,I,641.214.6513

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He lythe at Borow , and my mastres hys wyveffe , be-cause the plage
reygnyth at Ormysby . PASTON,I,641.214.6514

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so of hys own mocyon he mevyd to me of the maryage of my nevew
+gour soon , PASTON,I,641.214.6515

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and as glad foolkys woold be to bargayn as euer +ge wyste ;
PASTON,I,641.214.6516

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo hathe shewyd me that +ge shuld haue <P_I,642> as myche as Ser
E. Bedyngfelld , whyche was v c marke . PASTON,I,642.214.6517

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Moore-ouer he shewyd that he woold depart wyth it to Ser Rogere T. ore
to Harry Colett , whyche he shewyd +ge woold not of but to haue the
mony at +gour dysposyssyon . PASTON,I,642.214.6518

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And me semys be hys report that he knowyth well that yf +ge delle wyth
Ser H. H. he wyll be in a suerte` that the mony that he shuld depart
wyth shuld goo to the redemyng of +gour landys and othere +gour
dawngeres . PASTON,I,642.214.6519

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
More-ouer he shewyd me that the mony whyche +ge skyftyd of H. Colett
was $thought be Ser Harry H. that Ser R. Townesend shuld haue ben
contentte wyth it , whyche is knowyn the contrary , and causyd hym to
geue delaye in that be-halffe to +gow . PASTON,I,642.214.6520

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I know well this jantylman berythe +gow as good mynde as any man alyve
, my mastres hys mothere and allso my mastres hys wyve in lyeke wyesse
; PASTON,I,642.214.6521

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and me semys he makys not the dowghttys to delyuer +gow hys mony that
othere men do of the delyuerye of thers . PASTON,I,642.214.6522

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Foore trowthe he shewythe me hys mynde , whyche is thus .
PASTON,I,642.214.6523

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf +ge wyll putt lande in feffement fore +geres , to the full
contentacyon of Townesend , Colett , and of my vncle , whyche he and
all men thynke +ge muste be charged to ore euer +ge goo thorow , and
that +gour next frendys haue the receyte of it tyll it be full contente
and payed , thus ore suche a suere weye to be had fore the well of all
parteys , I darre say he is not alyve wyll indevoure hym wyth better
wyll to deele wyth +gow , and , as my mynde seruys me , streytte
hym-sylffe as it may be booryn , be-syde my $mastres hys modyres v c .
PASTON,I,642.214.6524

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My mastres hys wyffe on my faythe I darre say the moste harty body to
+gow wardys in this be-halffe that is alyve , PASTON,I,642.214.6525

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the fayneeste body woold be to haue it accomplyshyd .
PASTON,I,642.214.6526

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ser , I thenke +ge be to-wardys London , PASTON,I,642.214.6527

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and well I woot +gowur mynde is to ease +gour-sylffe as hastely as +ge
may . PASTON,I,642.214.6528

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God +ge do to +gour honure and to +gour moste well to-gederys .
PASTON,I,642.214.6529

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Marchandys ore new jantylmen I deme wyll proferre large .
PASTON,I,642.214.6530

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Noon othere dyspreysed , +ge know the contynewance of this man and how
he is alyed . PASTON,I,642.214.6531

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Well I woott yf +ge depart to London +ge shall haue proferes large .
PASTON,I,642.214.6532

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf +gour jornay be not but to ease +gow in that be-halffe , be my poore
avyce slake fore iij ore iiij days , PASTON,I,642.214.6533

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore euer me semys I shuld not haue ben brokyn to so largely but that
they entende it hastely to say to +gow . PASTON,I,642.214.6534

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sythe I was there I vndyre-stande yf it had not happyd me to haue seyne
them as +gesterday she woold this day haue made here cowntenance to
<P_I,643> haue seyn here nes , Bothes dowtere , wyche is at Pallyngys
fore fere of the plage , and haue comyn seyne my wyffe , and specyallly
to haue de-syred vus to meve +gow towardys them ; PASTON,I,643.214.6535

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in trowthe so she hasse . PASTON,I,643.214.6536

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God +ge do as well to +gour honure as I woold do my-sylffe .
PASTON,I,643.214.6537

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Yf +ge wyll tery thys lytell season be-foore rehersyd , yf +ge lyste ,
I woott well +ge may haue the mater moore largely comyned ;
PASTON,I,643.214.6538

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf +ge tary tyll Monday I wull awayte on +gow to Hynengham , wyth
Godys grace , who euer preserue +gow and +gours . PASTON,I,643.214.6539

AUTHOR:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_214:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Gour E. Paston PASTON,I,643.214.6540

<Q_PAS_A_1470S_FN_WAPASTON> <L_PASTON_215> <A_WALTER_PASTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1455> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,644>

{ED:402._TO_MARGARET_PASTON_BEFORE_1479,_19_MAY}

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To his worchypfull $moder Margaret Paston , $dwellyng in Mawtby
, $be +tis letter delyveryd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,644.215.6541

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Rytgh reverent and worchypfull moder , I recomavnd me on-to yowre good
moderchypp , besechyng yow to geve me yowre dayly benedyiccyon ,
desyeryng hartyly to heere of yowre prosperyte` , whych God preserve to
hys plesure and to yowre hartys desyyre , &c . PASTON,I,644.215.6542

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I marvel soore that yow sent me noo word of the letter wych I sent to
yow by Master Wylliam Brown at Ester . PASTON,I,644.215.6543

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I sent yow word that tym that I xold send yow myn exspenses
partyculerely , PASTON,I,644.215.6544

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as at thys tym the berare here-of had a letter sodenly that he xold
com hom , PASTON,I,644.215.6545

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-fore I kowd have noo leysure to send them yow on that wys ;
PASTON,I,644.215.6546

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there-fore I xall wryt to yow in thys letter the hool som of my
exspenses sythyns I was wyth yow tyll Ester last paste , and also the
reseytys , rekenyng the xx s. that I had of yow to Oxon. wardys , wyth
the Buschopys fyndyng . PASTON,I,644.215.6547

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The hool som of reseytys ys v li. xvij s. vj d. , PASTON,I,644.215.6548

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and the holl som of exspenses ys vj li. v s. v d. ob. qua. ;
PASTON,I,644.215.6549

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that comth over the reseytys in my exspenses I have borowd of
Master Edmund , PASTON,I,644.215.6550

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yt drawyth to viij s. , PASTON,I,644.215.6551

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet I recon non exspenses sythyns Ester ; PASTON,I,644.215.6552

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as fore them they be not grete . PASTON,I,644.215.6553

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And there-fore I besech yow to send me mony by Syre Richard <P_I,645>
Cotman , brynger of thys letter , ore ellys by the next masenger that
yow kan have to me . PASTON,I,645.215.6554

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I besech yow that he that I sent by thys letter to yow may have good
schere yf he bryng yt hym-selfe , as he telth me that he woll ,
PASTON,I,645.215.6555

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fore he ys a good lover of myn . PASTON,I,645.215.6556

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Master Edmund Alyard recomavnd hym specyaly to yow , and to all my
brodyrn and systyrs and to all yowre howsold , PASTON,I,645.215.6557

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I besech yow that I may be recomavndyt to all them also , and
specyaly to my brodyre John +te yonger . PASTON,I,645.215.6558

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more to yow at thys tym , but Allmythy Iesus have yow in hys kepyng
, PASTON,I,645.215.6559

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
amen . PASTON,I,645.215.6560

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:SON:1455:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_215:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Oxonforth on Seynt Dunstonys Day and +te xix day of May . By
yowre soun and scolere Walter Paston PASTON,I,645.215.6561

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_WAPASTON> <L_PASTON_216> <A_WALTER_PASTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1455> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_I,645>

{ED:403._TO_JOHN_PASTON_II_1479,_22_MAY}

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To hys ryth reverend broder Ser John Paston at Caster Hall in
Norfolk . </font> PASTON,I,645.216.6562

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
After all dw reverens and recomendacions , likyth yt yow to vnderstond
that I reseyvyd a letter fro my broder John wher-by I vnderstod that my
moder and yow wold know what +te costys of my procedyng schold be .
PASTON,I,645.216.6563

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sent a letter to my broder John certyfyyng my costys and +te causys
why that I wold procede ; PASTON,I,645.216.6564

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but as I have sent word to my moder I purpose to tary now tyll yt be
Mychylmas , PASTON,I,645.216.6565

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for yf I tary tyll than sum of my costys schall be payyd for .
PASTON,I,645.216.6566

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I supposed whan that I sent +te letter to my broder John that +te
Qwenys broder schold have procedyd at Mydsomer , PASTON,I,645.216.6567

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he woll tary now tyll Michylmas ; PASTON,I,645.216.6568

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but , as I send word to my moder , I wold be inceptor be-for Mydsomer ,
PASTON,I,645.216.6569

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther-for I besechyd her to send me sum mony , PASTON,I,645.216.6570

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
fore yt woll be sum cost to me , but not mych . PASTON,I,645.216.6571

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , Syr , I besech yow to send me word what answer ye have of +te
Buschopp of Wynchester for that mater whych ye spak to hym of for me
whan I was wyth yow at London . PASTON,I,645.216.6572

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I <P_I,646> thowth fore to have had word ther-of or thys tym .
PASTON,I,646.216.6573

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wold yt wold com , PASTON,I,646.216.6574

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for owr fyndyng of +te Buschopp of Norwych begynnyth to be slake in
payment . PASTON,I,646.216.6575

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf ye know not whath thys term menyth , ' inceptor ' , Master
Edmund , that was my rewlere at Oxforth , berar her-of , kan tell yow ,
or ellys any oder gradwat . PASTON,I,646.216.6576

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I pray yow send me word what ys do wyth +te hors I left at Totnam
, and whyder +te man be content that I had yt of or nat .
PASTON,I,646.216.6577

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Iesu preserve yow to hys pleswr and to yowr most hartys desyyr .
PASTON,I,646.216.6578

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Oxforth +te Saturday next after Ascensyon of Owr Lord .
PASTON,I,646.216.6579

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:1442:37
LETTER:PASTON_216:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Walter Paston PASTON,I,646.216.6580

<Q_PAS_A_1479_FN_WAPASTON> <L_PASTON_217> <A_WALTER_PASTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1455> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,646>

{ED:404._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1479,_30_JUNE}

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To hys ryth trusty and hartyly belovyd broder John Paston ,
abydyng at +te Georg at Powlys Qwharfe in London , be +tis letter
deluyeryd . </font> PASTON,I,646.217.6581

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Rygth worchypfull and hartyly belovyd broder , I recomaund me on-to yow
, desyeryng feythfoly to here of yowr prosperyte` , qwhych God preserve
; thankyng yow of dyverse letterys that yow sent me .
PASTON,I,646.217.6582

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
In the last letter that yow sent to me ye wryt that yow schold have
wryt in the letter that yow sent by Master Brown how that I schold send
yow word what tym that I schold procede ; PASTON,I,646.217.6583

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but there was non such wrytyng in that letter . PASTON,I,646.217.6584

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
The letter is yet to schew , PASTON,I,646.217.6585

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yf yow com to Oxon . ye schal see the letter , and all the leterys
that yow sent me sythynnys I cam to Oxon . PASTON,I,646.217.6586

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And also Master Brown had that sam tym mysch mony in a bage , so that
he durst nat bryng yt wyth hym , PASTON,I,646.217.6587

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and that sam letter was in that sam bage , PASTON,I,646.217.6588

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he had for-gete to take owt the letter , PASTON,I,646.217.6589

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he sent all to-geder by London ; so that yt was +te next day after
that I was maad bachylere ore than +te letter cam ,
PASTON,I,646.217.6590

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so +te fawt was not in me . PASTON,I,646.217.6591

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf ye wyl know what day I was maad baschylere , I was maad on
Fryday was sevynyth , PASTON,I,646.217.6592

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and I mad my fest on the Munday after . PASTON,I,646.217.6593

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I was promysyd venyson a-geyn my fest of my Lady Harcort and of a-noder
man <P_I,647> to , PASTON,I,647.217.6594

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I was deseyvyd of both ; PASTON,I,647.217.6595

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but my gestys hewld them plesyd wyth such mete as they had , blyssyd be
God , hoo have yow in hys kepyng , PASTON,I,647.217.6596

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
amen . PASTON,I,647.217.6597

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Oxon . on the Wedenys-day next after Seynt Peter .
PASTON,I,647.217.6598

AUTHOR:WALTER_PASTON:MALE:BROTHER:1455:24
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_217:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
W. Paston PASTON,I,647.217.6599

<Q_PAS_A_1478?_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_218> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,649>

{ED:406._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PROBABLY_1478,_7_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To hys worchepful brodyr John Paston be thys delyuered in hast .
</font> PASTON,I,649.218.6600

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght reuerent and worchepful brodyr , I recomaunde me on-to yow ,
desyrynge to here of yowre welfare and prosperite` , letynge yow wete
that I haue reseuyd of Alwedyr a lettyr and a nobyll in gowlde +ter-in
. PASTON,I,649.218.6601

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ferthermore , my creansyr Mayster Thomas hertely recomaundyd hym to yow
, PASTON,I,649.218.6602

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he praythe yow to sende hym sum mony for my comons
PASTON,I,649.218.6603

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he seythe ye be xx=ti=s. in hys dette , PASTON,I,649.218.6604

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for a monthe was to pay for $when he had mony laste .
PASTON,I,649.218.6605

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I beseche yow to sende me a hose clothe , on for +te halydays of
sum colore and a-nothyr for +te workyng days , how corse so euer it be
it makyth no matyr ; and a stomechere , and ij schyrtys , and a peyer
of sclyppers . PASTON,I,649.218.6606

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if it lyke yow that I may come wyth Alwedyr be watyr and sporte me
wyth yow at London a day or ij thys terme tyme , than +ge may let all
thys be tyl +te tyme that I come . PASTON,I,649.218.6607

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And than I wol telle you when I schall be redy to come from Eton , by
+te grace of God , whom haue yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,I,649.218.6608

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:19?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:34?
LETTER:PASTON_218:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the Saturday next aftyr All Halown Day , wyth +te hand of your
brodyr Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,649.218.6609

<Q_PAS_A_1479?_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_219> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,650>

{ED:407._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PROBABLY_1479,_23_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To his worchepfull broder John Paston be thys delyuered in hast
. </font> PASTON,I,650.219.6610

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght reuerent and worchepfull broder , aftyr all dewte`s of
recomendacion I recomaunde me on-to yow , desyryng to here of your
prosperite` and welfare , whych I pray God long to contynew to hys
plesore and to your hertys desyre ; letyng yow wete that I receyued a
letter from yow , in the wyche letter was viij d. , wyth +te whyche I
schuld bye a peyer of slyppers ; ferthere-more certyfyyng yow as for
+te xiij s. iiij d. whyche +ge sende by a jentylmannys man for my borde
, cawlyd Thomas Newton , was delyuered to myn hostes , and soo to my
creancere Master Thomas Steuenson ; PASTON,I,650.219.6611

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hertely recomended hym to yow . PASTON,I,650.219.6612

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also +ge sende me worde in the letter of xij li. fyggys and viij li.
reysons . PASTON,I,650.219.6613

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I haue them nott delyuered , PASTON,I,650.219.6614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I dowte not I schal haue , PASTON,I,650.219.6615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for Alwedyr tolde me of them PASTON,I,650.219.6616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyde +tat they came aftyr in an other barge .
PASTON,I,650.219.6617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for +te yong jentylwoman , I wol certyfye yow how I fryste felle
in qweyntauns wyth hyr . PASTON,I,650.219.6618

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hir fader is dede . PASTON,I,650.219.6619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther be ij systers of them , +te <em> elder ... </em> +te whych weddyng
I was wyth myn hostes , and also desyryd by +te jentyl-man hym-selfe ,
cawlyd Wylliam Swanne , whos dwellynge is in Eton .
PASTON,I,650.219.6620

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So it fortuned that myn hostes reportyd on me odyrwyse than I was wordy
, so +tat hyr moder comaundyd hyr to make me good chere ,
PASTON,I,650.219.6621

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soo in good feythe sche ded . PASTON,I,650.219.6622

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sche is not a-bydynge ther sche ys now , PASTON,I,650.219.6623

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hyr dwellyng is in London ; PASTON,I,650.219.6624

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but hyr moder and sche cam to a place of hyrs v myle from Eton , were
+te weddyng was , for be-cause it was nye to +te jentylman whyche
weddyd hyr dowtyr . PASTON,I,650.219.6625

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And on Monday next comyng , +tat <P_I,651> is to sey +te fyrst Monday
of Clene Lente , hyr moder and sche wyl goo to +te pardon at Schene ,
and soo forthe to London , and there to a-byde in a place of hyrs in
Bowe Chyrche-yerde . PASTON,I,651.219.6626

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if it plese yow to inquere of hyr , hyr modyrs name is Mestres
Alborow . PASTON,I,651.219.6627

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
+Te name of the dowtyr is Margarete Alborow , PASTON,I,651.219.6628

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the age of hyr is be all lykelyod xviij or xix +gere at +te fertheste .
PASTON,I,651.219.6629

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the mony and plate , it is redy when soo euer sche were
weddyd ; PASTON,I,651.219.6630

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but as for the lyuelod , I trow not tyl after hyr modyrs desese ,
PASTON,I,651.219.6631

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I can not telle yow for very certeyn <em> ... </em>
PASTON,I,651.219.6632

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but yow may know by inqueryng . PASTON,I,651.219.6633

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for hyr bewte` , juge yow that when +ge see hyr , yf so be that
+ge take +te laubore ; PASTON,I,651.219.6634

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and specialy beolde hyr handys , PASTON,I,651.219.6635

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for and if it be as it is tolde me sche is dysposyd to be thyke .
PASTON,I,651.219.6636

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my comynge from Eton , I lake no-thynge but wersyfyynge ,
whyche I troste to haue wyth a lytyll contynuance .
PASTON,I,651.219.6637

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Queritur : PASTON,I,651.219.6638

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Quomodo non valet hora , valet mora ? PASTON,I,651.219.6639

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Vnde dicitur : PASTON,I,651.219.6640

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Arbore iam videas exemplum . PASTON,I,651.219.6641

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Non die possunt Omnia supleri ; PASTON,I,651.219.6642

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
set tamen illa mora . PASTON,I,651.219.6643

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thes too verse a-fore seyde be of myn own makyng .
PASTON,I,651.219.6644

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more to yow at thys tyme , but God haue yow in hys kepyng .
PASTON,I,651.219.6645

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:20?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:35?
LETTER:PASTON_219:M4:1479?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Eton the Euen of Seynt Mathy the Apostyll , in haste , wyth
the hande of your broder Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,651.219.6646

<Q_PAS_A_1480S_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_220> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,651>

{ED:408._TO_EDMOND_PASTON_II_AFTER_1480,_22_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hys right worchepfull brodyr Edmunde Paston be thys lettyr
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,I,651.220.6647

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Aftyr all dewte`s of recomendacion I recomaunde me on-to yow , letynge
yow wett that here is closid in thys same byll the wyll of my fadyr ,
suche as my brodyr hathe , PASTON,I,651.220.6648

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he seyth that it is the very wyll of my fadyr and that he had it
owt of the regestyr . PASTON,I,651.220.6649

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for towchynge of my mater , I <P_I,652> can haue non othe {ED:r}
ende than I had whan I departyd fro yow , sauynge that my brodyr hathe
gotyn a pardon for +te alyenacion +tat the Bochop of Wynchestyr alyenyd
. PASTON,I,652.220.6650

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for the estate that I schold haue in it , I can gete non but
acordynge to my fadyrs wyll , whyche is to me and to my heyers malys as
is specyfyed in the wyll . PASTON,I,652.220.6651

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as for my brodyrs wyll is non other but that I schuld haue Runham ,
whyche is viij li. a +gere ad minus , in recompense of the x merke owt
of the maner of Sporle , so that I relessyd all my ryght that I haue in
the maner of Sporle . PASTON,I,652.220.6652

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as towchynge yow in my brodyrs wyll , there is no-thyng ;
PASTON,I,652.220.6653

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I redde it ouer PASTON,I,652.220.6654

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and woll wright it also , so that I woll haue the same for my copye
that he wrote wyth hys owne hande . PASTON,I,652.220.6655

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I beseche yow to recomaunde me hertely to my sustyr your wyff .
PASTON,I,652.220.6656

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No more to yow at thys tyme , but God haue yow in hys kepynge .
PASTON,I,652.220.6657

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_220:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at London the xxij day of February , be yowre brodyr Wylliam
Paston PASTON,I,652.220.6658

<Q_PAS_A_1487_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_221> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,652>

{ED:409._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1487,_7_MARCH}

<P_I,653>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , I recomaunde me on-to yow , latynge yow wete that , as for John
Petyrsons mater , as +gett it is not spedde . PASTON,I,653.221.6659

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I spake on-to Mayster Secretory of it , PASTON,I,653.221.6660

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and promysyd hym that +ge badde me ; PASTON,I,653.221.6661

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he aunswerd me that he wold nott geue yowe non cowmfortt in it for
wynnyng of your money other than ye schuld fyend trew ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6662

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so he wold nott vndyrtake it thow +ge wold spende abowt it c merke
. PASTON,I,653.221.6663

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so vp-on thys aunswere I went on-to my lord PASTON,I,653.221.6664

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and toke hym on of the byllys , PASTON,I,653.221.6665

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so he aunswerd me that at the fyrst worde the Kynge asched hym l li
. PASTON,I,653.221.6666

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And where as +ge reqwere to haue it grauntyd wyth-owt fyne or fee , I
wold +ge had it wyth the payment of +te fyne or fee ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6667

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for it schall nott coste past xx s. or iiij nobyls more than +ge offerd
to +te secretory ; PASTON,I,653.221.6668

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also in nowthyr of those byllys ther is non clawse in it wherby it
scholde be grauntyd wyth-owt fyne or fee , PASTON,I,653.221.6669

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thow ther were it is tolde me it profyte nott ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6670

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
they of the Chauncery woll nott lose ther dewte`s for Kynge nor other .
PASTON,I,653.221.6671

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for the generall lycens , I haue asked my lord of it ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6672

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he aunswerde me that he wott well ther schall be non grauntyd of a
gode whyle , and it schall come fyrst to your handys ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6673

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I tolde hym how that +ge were begylyd whan +ge were at London .
PASTON,I,653.221.6674

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for to speke wyth Mayster Schypton , or yet wyth my lorde Treserer ,
I cowd not brynge it a-bowt , PASTON,I,653.221.6675

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for my lord entendyd to ryde the next morow aftyr the makynge of thys
letter ; PASTON,I,653.221.6676

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I aduysyd Edmond Dorman to speke wyth Mayster Shypton as he went
homewarde . PASTON,I,653.221.6677

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for my lord Treserer , he was not wyth the Kyng of all the counsell
tyme , +te whyche was endyd on the iij=de= day of Marche .
PASTON,I,653.221.6678

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And theder came my lorde of Northethomyrlond the fyrste day of Marche ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6679

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and departyd the euen afore +te makyng of thys letter ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6680

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hathe endentyd wyth the Kynge for the kepynge owt of the Schottys
and warrynge on them , PASTON,I,653.221.6681

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and schall haue large money , PASTON,I,653.221.6682

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I can nott telle +te some for certeyn . PASTON,I,653.221.6683

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also $ther is an rover takyn at Brystowe , on Cowper as I wene ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6684

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he is lyke to be hanged , PASTON,I,653.221.6685

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he confessythe more of hys felawis . PASTON,I,653.221.6686

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also Edwarde Hecstowe of Douere is apechyd of treson of many straunge
poyntys , PASTON,I,653.221.6687

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hys accusere and he were bothe afore the Kynge ,
PASTON,I,653.221.6688

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and then they were takyn apert PASTON,I,653.221.6689

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hym-sylfe confessyd it that hys accusere accusyd hym of , and
many other thyngys more than he was accusyd of . PASTON,I,653.221.6690

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And he had many lordys and gentylmen to aunswere for hys trowthe and
hys demenynge afore-tyme , PASTON,I,653.221.6691

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for as I hard sey bothe the Kynge in a maner , nor non of the tother
lordys nor gentylmen , beleuyd not hys accuser tyl +tat he confessyd it
hym-selfe ; PASTON,I,653.221.6692

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so he is in the Towre and lyke to be dede . PASTON,I,653.221.6693

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As for the Kyngys comynge in-to the contre` , on Monday come fortenyght
he woll lye at the Abbey of Stratteforde and so to Chelmnsford , +tan
<P_I,654> to Syr Thomas Mongehombrey , +tan to Heuenyngham , than to
Colchestyr , +tan to Ipswyche , +tan to Bery , +tan to Dame Anne
Wyngfeldys , and soo to Norwyche ; PASTON,I,654.221.6694

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there woll he be on Palme Sonday Euyn , and so tary there all Ester
and +tan to Walsyngham . Wher-fore +ge had nede to warne Wylliam Gogyne
and hys felawes to puruey them off wyne j-now , PASTON,I,654.221.6695

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for euery man berythe me on hande that +te towne $shall $be
{TEXT:schalbe} dronkyn drye as Yorke $was whan the Kynge was there .
PASTON,I,654.221.6696

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , Mayster Sampson recomaunde hym on-to yow , PASTON,I,654.221.6697

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he hathe sende yow a rynge be Edmonde Dorman ;
PASTON,I,654.221.6698

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and besydys that he requeryd me to wryte on-to yow +tat it were best
for yow to puruey yow of some $gentyl-manys thynges ageyns the Kyngys
comyng , PASTON,I,654.221.6699

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for suere he woll brynge yow gestys j-now , PASTON,I,654.221.6700

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and therfore puruey yow +ter-aftyr . PASTON,I,654.221.6701

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also he sendythe yow worde that it is my lordys mende +tat my syster ,
wyth all other godely folkys +ter-abowte , scholde acompeny wyth Dame
Elsebethe Calthrop , be-cawse there is noo grete lady ther-a-bowte ,
ageyns the Kyngys comynge , PASTON,I,654.221.6702

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for my lorde hathe made grete boste of the fayre and goode gentylwomen
of +te contre` PASTON,I,654.221.6703

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so the Kynge seyd he wolde see them sure . PASTON,I,654.221.6704

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , my lorde hathe sente on-to +te most part of the gentyl-men of
Essex to wayte vp-on hym at Chelmnysford , where as he entendythe to
mete wyth the Kynge , and +tat they be well apoyntyd +tat +te
Lankeschere men may see +tat ther be gentylmen of so grete sobestaunce
+tat +tei be able to bye alle Lankeschere . PASTON,I,654.221.6705

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Men thynke that +ge amonge yow wol doo +te same . PASTON,I,654.221.6706

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Your contre` is gretely bostyd of , and also the jnabytours of +te same
. PASTON,I,654.221.6707

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow to remembre my hors that ye promysyd me .
PASTON,I,654.221.6708

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
God kepe yow . PASTON,I,654.221.6709

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_221:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Schene in haste +te vij=te= day of Marche wyth the hande of
your brodyr Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,654.221.6710

<Q_PAS_A_1487_T_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_222> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1459> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_10>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,654>

{ED:410._TO_THE_BAILIFF_OF_MAUTBY_1487}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the Baly of Mawlteby . </font> PASTON,I,654.222.6711

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mayster Baly , I recomaunde me on-to yow , praynge yow that ye woll
sende me be Wylliam Kokkys , berer her-of , iiij nobylles in golde putt
<P_I,655> in to the same boxe that thys byll is in as thow it were
euydens , PASTON,I,655.222.6712

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I haue tolde the masengere that he schulde brynge me nothynge butt
euydens ; PASTON,I,655.222.6713

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is in a manere departyng owt of my seruyse , wherfore I wold
nott he knew so myche of my counsell . PASTON,I,655.222.6714

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for the remenaunte , I wollde +ge schulde kepe it tyll I come
my-selfe . PASTON,I,655.222.6715

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if Bayard be on-solde I pray yow late hym be made fatte ageyns the
Kynge come in-to the contre` , what so euer I pay for the kepyng of hym
. PASTON,I,655.222.6716

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I schall wete how goode a corser I schall be my-selfe at my comyng
in-to the contre` , be the grace of God , who haue yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,655.222.6717

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1459:28
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_10:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_222:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Henyngham be your Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,655.222.6718

<Q_PAS_A_1488_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_223> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,655>

{ED:411._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1488,_13_MAY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Syr John Paston be thys lettyr delyuered . </font>
PASTON,I,655.223.6719

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all dewe recomendacion , $please $yt {TEXT:pleasyt} yow to
vndyrstonde that my lorde hathe ben wyth the Kynge in Wyndesour at
Seynt Georgys Feste , PASTON,I,655.223.6720

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther at the same feste were bothe-1 +te jnbacetours of Breten and
of Flaundyrs as well fro the Kynge of Romayns as fro the yonge Duke .
PASTON,I,655.223.6721

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But I can not schew yow +te certeyn whedyr we schall haue wyth them
warre or pease . PASTON,I,655.223.6722

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But I vndyrstonde for certeyn that all suche capeteyns as wente to +te
see in Lente , +tat is to sey Syr Charlys Somersett , Syr Richard Hawte
, and Syr Wylliam Vampage , makythe them redy to goo to the see ageyn
as schortely as they can , PASTON,I,655.223.6723

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
to what jntente I can not sey . PASTON,I,655.223.6724

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , where as it was seyde that my lord Woddevyle and other schulde
haue gone ouer in-to Breten to haue eyded the Duke of Breten , I can
not tell of non suche eyd . PASTON,I,655.223.6725

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Butt vp-on that seynge ther came many men to Sowthehamton , where it
was seyd that he schulde haue takyn schyppyng to haue waytyd vpon hym
ouer , PASTON,I,655.223.6726

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and soo whan he was countyrmaundyd thos that resortyd thedyr to haue
gon ouer wyth hym taryde there styll , in hope +tat they schuld haue
<P_I,656> ben lycensyd to haue gone ouer , PASTON,I,656.223.6727

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and whan they sey no lykeleod that they schuld haue lycens there was ij
c of them that gete them in-to a Breten schyppe +te whyche was late
come ouer wyth salte , and bad the mayster sett them a lond in Breten .
PASTON,I,656.223.6728

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And they had nott seylyd not paste vj legys butt they aspied a
Frencheman , PASTON,I,656.223.6729

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and the Frencheman mad ouer to them , PASTON,I,656.223.6730

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and they ferde as thow they wolde not haue medylde wyth them ,
PASTON,I,656.223.6731

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and all the Englysche-men went vndyr the hetchys soo that they schewyd
no more but those that came to Sowthehamton wyth the schype , to cawse
the Frenche-men to be the more gladder to medyll wyth them .
PASTON,I,656.223.6732

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And soo the Frencheman burdyd them , PASTON,I,656.223.6733

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and then they that were vndyr the hetches came vp PASTON,I,656.223.6734

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and soo toke +te Frencheman PASTON,I,656.223.6735

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and caryed +te men , schyppe , and all in-to Breaten .
PASTON,I,656.223.6736

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also ther was ther an jnbacetour fro the Kynge of Schottys who is now
put in grete trobyll be hys son and other of the lordys of hys londe .
PASTON,I,656.223.6737

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , as I came homewerde be London I spake there wyth Emonde Dormand ,
PASTON,I,656.223.6738

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seyd that he had wretyn onto yow PASTON,I,656.223.6739

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he had non aunswere ; wherfor he prayd me that if I knew ony man
comynge towerdys Norwhyche and I wolde wrythe on-to yow +tat he ferythe
if ye see non other dyreccion that he schall be comittyd to +te Flete .
PASTON,I,656.223.6740

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also he schewyd me that Herry Wyott wholde fynde the mene to haue yow
condemnyd and recouer +te obligacion of xl li. ageyns yow .
PASTON,I,656.223.6741

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And soo he seythe he whote nott how to doo , PASTON,I,656.223.6742

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he is halfe dysmayd . PASTON,I,656.223.6743

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
He ferythe lesse that he schall neuer come home ; PASTON,I,656.223.6744

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he intendythe to plede the obligacion fulfylyd at Norwyche ,
PASTON,I,656.223.6745

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he seythe ther is non other remedy to saue yow fro the condemnacion
tyl that he herythe otherwyse from yow , whyche he thynkethe longe
aftyr . PASTON,I,656.223.6746

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:29
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:44
LETTER:PASTON_223:M4:1488:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Henyngham ye xiij=te= day of May wyth the hand of your brodyr
Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,656.223.6747

<Q_PAS_A_1489_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_224> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,658>

{ED:413._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1489,_BETWEEN_6_10_MAY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To hijs brodyr Syr John Paston . </font> PASTON,I,658.224.6748

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I recomaunde me on-to yow . PASTON,I,658.224.6749

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where as ye desyre that I schulde sende yow worde of suche tydyng
as Phylyp Lewes and Wyndesor bryngythe fro the corte , they be come
thens bothe ; PASTON,I,658.224.6750

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but we here of no tydyngys that they brynge but that yondyr folkys
abyde stylle abowte +te place where as thys onhappy dede was done , and
not wyth no grete nowmbyr , PASTON,I,658.224.6751

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
they sey not paste wyth v or vj c when they were moste .
PASTON,I,658.224.6752

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeyt they haue made proclamacions in +te cuntrey to mete wyth oder
of ther affynyte` as on Tuesday last past , as it aperythe in the copy
of ther proclamacion heraftyr folowyng . PASTON,I,658.224.6753

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also they schew the Kynge intendythe to holde on hys jurney ,
PASTON,I,658.224.6754

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Phylyp Lewes is redyn ageyn to the Kyng , PASTON,I,658.224.6755

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and schall brynge wyth hym money for all ther wagys that schall be in
my lordys retynew , as yow and vj of Syr Wylliam Bolens seruauntys and
$odyr . PASTON,I,658.224.6756

<P_I,659>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , Mastyr Clopton sye yowre lettyr , PASTON,I,659.224.6757

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a seythe he knew my lordys mende suche that he durste not meue hym
wyth it . PASTON,I,659.224.6758

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ther was Syr Wylliam Say , PASTON,I,659.224.6759

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Clopton wolde not it schulde be knowen of non other but your-selfe
. PASTON,I,659.224.6760

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He sent my lorde be a seruaunt of hys xl li. to haue excusyid hym ,
PASTON,I,659.224.6761

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it wolde not be takyn ; PASTON,I,659.224.6762

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and +tat I mervell of . PASTON,I,659.224.6763

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeyt he brake thus fer to my lorde : PASTON,I,659.224.6764

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he asched hym how many he apoyntyd yow to brynge wyth yow ,
PASTON,I,659.224.6765

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he answerde hym xx=ti= , PASTON,I,659.224.6766

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and than he schewyd hym yowre chargys +tat ye haue had .
PASTON,I,659.224.6767

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My lorde seyd ye myght haue men a-nowe , PASTON,I,659.224.6768

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ther wagys $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} payd for .
PASTON,I,659.224.6769

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Clopton aunswerde how that it wolde coste yow large money besyde +ter
wagys to hors them and harnes them , and how that to sey the trowthe ye
were not well at ese . PASTON,I,659.224.6770

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not wythstandynge all thys my lorde wyllyd that ye schulde come to hym
to Cambryge on Tuesday at nyght , wyth as many as {with}_P yee myght ,
PASTON,I,659.224.6771

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye and he schulde do well j-now . PASTON,I,659.224.6772

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Soo Clopton thyngyth that and ye brynge a dosen wyth yow it is
suffycyent , howbeyt +tat Syr Emonde Bedyngfeld , Syr Thomas Tyrell ,
and Syr Rychard Lewes haue ben wyth my lorde , and yche of them haue
offyrde to mete wyth my lorde at Cambryge wyth xxx men apese of them .
PASTON,I,659.224.6773

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So I wolde not ye schulde be to ferre vndyr them . Wherfor I thynke
best that ye puruey yow so as {TEXT:and} ye schulde goo forthe
yor-selfe , PASTON,I,659.224.6774

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I can perseue non othyr wyse . PASTON,I,659.224.6775

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My bedfelawe Cornwaleys is maryed in the northe , PASTON,I,659.224.6776

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he came as yesternyght to my lorde , streyt owt of the contre` ,
PASTON,I,659.224.6777

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he scheythe non othyrwyse but as I haue wretyn here afore in thys
lettyr . PASTON,I,659.224.6778

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye schall haue for yor-self and for yche of your seruauntys horsyd and
hernessyd xx s. in hande at Cambryge for a monthe .
PASTON,I,659.224.6779

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I truste we schal haue done or xx days to an ende , wyth +te grace
of God , who haue yow in kepynge . PASTON,I,659.224.6780

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At $Henyngham {TEXT:Henygham} . PASTON,I,659.224.6781

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Be your brodyr Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,659.224.6782

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To be knowyn to all the Northe partys of England to euery lorde ,
knyght , esquyer , gentylman , and yeman , that they $shall $be
{TEXT:schalbe} redy in ther defensable aray , jn the Est parte on
Tuysday next comyng on Aldyrton More , and in the West parte on Gateley
More the same day , vpon peyne of losyng of ther goodys and bodyes ,
for to geynsstonde suche persons as is abowtward for to dystroy owre
suffereyn lorde the Kynge and the Comowns of Engelond for suche
vnlawfull poyntys as Seynt Thomas of Cauntyrbery dyed for .
PASTON,I,659.224.6783

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thys to be fulfyllyd and kept by euery ylke comenere apon peyn of
dethe . PASTON,I,659.224.6784

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thys is in the name of Mayster Hobbe Hyrste , PASTON,I,659.224.6785

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_224:M4:1489:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Robyn God-felaws brodyr he is , as I trow . PASTON,I,659.224.6786

<Q_PAS_A_1492_FN_W3PASTON> <L_PASTON_225> <A_WILLIAM_PASTON_III>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1459> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,660>

{ED:414._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1492,_18_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worchepfull Syr John Paston , knyght . </font>
PASTON,I,660.225.6787

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr all dew recomendacion , lyke it yow to vndyrstond that Syr Herry
Heydon schewyd me that it is agreyd be Syr Edmond Bedyngfeld that the
mater betwyx hym and my brodyr Yeluerton $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe}
comynd at Norwyche , and there a dyreccion to be takyn in the same
mater mete for them bothe . PASTON,I,660.225.6788

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , +te Kyng sendythe ordynaunce dayly to +te see syde ,
PASTON,I,660.225.6789

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and hys tentys and alys be a-makyng faste PASTON,I,660.225.6790

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and many of them be made . PASTON,I,660.225.6791

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And there is also grete prouysyon made be gentylmen +tat scholde goo
wythe hys grace for hors , harnes , tentys , halys , gardyuyans ,
cartys , and othyr thyngys that scholde serue them for thys jurney that
the Kynge entendythe to take on hand , soo that be lykelyod hys grace
$will $be {TEXT:wolbe} goyng sone vpon Ester . PASTON,I,660.225.6792

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so I entende , aftyr that I here $heraftyr , to goo to Caleys to
puruey me of harneys and suche thyngys as I schall nede besydes hors ,
vndyr that forme +tat my costys $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} payd fore .
PASTON,I,660.225.6793

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , I am as yet no bettyr horsyd than I was whan I was wythe yow ,
PASTON,I,660.225.6794

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor I wote not where to haue none , PASTON,I,660.225.6795

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for hors flesche is of suche a price here that my purce is schante able
to bye on hors ; wherfor I beseche yow to herkyn for some in yowre
contre` . PASTON,I,660.225.6796

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , my cosyn John Heydon tolde me that +te Prior of Waburnes horse
was rially amendyd , and that +te Abott of Seynt Benetys schewed hym
there was a bay hors off a parsons nygh onto Seynt Benetis and +tat +te
Abot wolde gete hym for my cosyn Heydon at a resonable price .
PASTON,I,660.225.6797

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , my cosyn John Heydon woll geue me hys entrest in that hors if the
Abot haue bowght hym , PASTON,I,660.225.6798

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and so ye may lete +te Abot haue knowlege ; PASTON,I,660.225.6799

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if he haue not bowght hym , I beseche yow sende to see hym ,
PASTON,I,660.225.6800

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I wote not how to do wyth-owt yowre help aswell in horsyng of me as
in other thyngys . PASTON,I,660.225.6801

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
At the makyng of thys lettyr I $can $not {TEXT:canot} acerteyn yow what
parson it is that owythe thys hors . PASTON,I,660.225.6802

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
If I can know I wolle send yow worde in a bylle I sende to Thomas
Jullys be the berer herof . PASTON,I,660.225.6803

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , as towardys my jurney to Caleys , the whyche I entende to haue
tane at my laste beyng wyth yow , jt was so I was dysapoyntyd of Thomas
Dey and an other man I scholde haue had be hys menys , as ye haue had
knowlege of or now . PASTON,I,660.225.6804

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And also I had went to haue had folkys a mette wyth me at Hedyngham
whyche $did $not {TEXT:dednott} . PASTON,I,660.225.6805

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lorde , seyng me dysesyd and also <P_I,661> non otherwyse purueyd ,
wyllyd me in ony wyse to tary on-tyl hys comyng to London ,
PASTON,I,661.225.6806

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and sent myn excuse to my Lorde Dawbeney vndyr thys forme , how that I
was sore disesyd , notwythestondyng I was welewyllyd to haue come to
fulfyll my promesse , PASTON,I,661.225.6807

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he cowde not sofyr me seyng me soo dysesyd . PASTON,I,661.225.6808

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so my Lord Dawbeney was sory of my dysese and content that I taryd
. PASTON,I,661.225.6809

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , I beseche yow to holde me excusyd for kepyng of Thomas Lynsted ,
yowre seruaunt , and hym bothe . PASTON,I,661.225.6810

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
It is soo that he and I bothe haue ben in hande wyth my vnkyll for hys
mater , PASTON,I,661.225.6811

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yett wee haue hym at noo good poynt , PASTON,I,661.225.6812

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but I troste we schall haue . PASTON,I,661.225.6813

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , if I take thys jurney to Caleys I moste beseche yow to forbere
hym lenger , PASTON,I,661.225.6814

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and jf I goo not to Caleys , thow I be lothe to forbere hym yet I
schall brynge hym wyth me schortly in-to Norfolke , ye to haue hym if
ye lyste , wyth +te grace of God , who haue yow in kepyng .
PASTON,I,661.225.6815

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1459:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER:1444:48
LETTER:PASTON_225:M4:1492:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te xviij day of February wyth the hande of yowre pore
brodyr Wylliam Paston PASTON,I,661.225.6816

<Q_PAS_C_1477_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_226> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,662>

{ED:415._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to my ryght welbelouyd Voluntyn John Paston , squyer , be
+tis bill delyuered , &c . </font> PASTON,I,662.226.6817

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght reuerent and wurschypfull and my ryght welebeloued Voluntyne , I
recommande me vn-to yowe full hertely , desyring to here of yowr
welefare , whech I beseche Almyghty God long for to preserve vn-to hys
plesure and +gowr hertys desyre . PASTON,I,662.226.6818

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf it please +gowe to here of my welefare , I am not in good heele
of body ner of herte , PASTON,I,662.226.6819

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor schall be tyll I here from yowe ; PASTON,I,662.226.6820

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
For +ter wottys no creature what peyn +tat I endure ,
PASTON,I,662.226.6821

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And for to be deede I dare it not dyscure . PASTON,I,662.226.6822

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And my lady my moder hath labored +te mater to my fadure full
delygently , PASTON,I,662.226.6823

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but sche can no more gete +ten +ge knowe of , for +te whech God knowyth
I am full sory . PASTON,I,662.226.6824

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
But yf that +ge loffe me , as I tryste verely that +ge do , +ge will
not leffe me +terfor ; PASTON,I,662.226.6825

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for if +tat +ge hade not halfe +te lyvelode +tat +ge hafe , for to do
+te grettyst labure +tat any woman on lyve myght , I wold not forsake
+gowe . PASTON,I,662.226.6826

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf +ge commande me to kepe me true where-euer I go Iwyse I will do
all my myght +gowe to love and neuer no mo . PASTON,I,662.226.6827

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf my freendys say +tat I do amys , +tei schal not me let so for to
do , PASTON,I,662.226.6828

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myn herte me byddys euer more to love +gowe Truly ouer all erthely
thing . PASTON,I,662.226.6829

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf +tei be neuer so wroth , I tryst it schall be bettur in tyme
commyng . PASTON,I,662.226.6830

<P_I,663>

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more to yowe at this tyme , but the Holy Trinite` hafe +gowe in
kepyng . PASTON,I,663.226.6831

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I besech +gowe +tat this bill be not seyn of non erthely creature
safe only +gour-selfe , &c . PASTON,I,663.226.6832

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_226:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And thys lettur was jndyte at Topcroft wyth full heuy herte . &c. Be
+gour own M. B. PASTON,I,663.226.6833

<Q_PAS_C_1477_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_227> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,663>

{ED:416._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1477,_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght welebelouyd cosyn John Paston , swyere , be this
lettur delyueryd , &c . </font> PASTON,I,663.227.6834

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wurschypffull and welebelouyd Volentyne , in my moste vmble wyse
I recommande me vn-to yowe , &c . PASTON,I,663.227.6835

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And hertely I thanke yowe for +te letture whech that +ge sende me be
John Bekurton , wherby I vndyrstonde and knowe +tat +ge be purposyd to
com to Topcroft in schorte tyme , and wyth-owte any erand or mater but
only to hafe a conclusyon of +te mater betwyx my fadur and +gowe .
PASTON,I,663.227.6836

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I wolde be most glad of any creature on lyve so +tat the mater myght
growe to effect . PASTON,I,663.227.6837

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And ther as +ge say , and +ge com and fynde +te mater no more toward
+ten +ge dyd afortyme +ge wold no more put my fadur and my lady my
moder to no cost ner besenesse for +tat cause a good wyle afture ,
weche causyth myn herte to be full hevy ; PASTON,I,663.227.6838

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yf +tat +ge com and the mater take to non effecte , +ten schuld I
be meche more sory and full of heuynesse . PASTON,I,663.227.6839

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for my-selfe , I hafe don and vndyrstond in the mater +tat I can
or may , as Good knowyth . PASTON,I,663.227.6840

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And I lete yowe pleynly vndyrstond +tat my fader wyll no more money
parte wyth-all in that behalfe but an c li. and l marke , whech is
ryght far fro the acomplyshment of +gowr desyre . Wherfor , yf +tat +ge
cowde be content wyth +tat good and my por persone , I wold be +te
meryest mayden on grounde . PASTON,I,663.227.6841

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And yf +ge thynke not +gowr-selfe so satysfyed , or +tat +ge myght hafe
mech more good , as I hafe vndyrstonde be +gowe afor , good , trewe ,
and lovyng Volentyne , +tat +ge take no such labure vppon +gowe as to
com more for +tat mater ; PASTON,I,663.227.6842

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but let it passe , and neuer more to be spokyn of , as I may be +gowr
trewe louer and bedewoman duryng my lyfe . PASTON,I,663.227.6843

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more vn-to yowe at thys tyme , but Almyghty Iesus preserve +gowe
bothe body and sowle , &c . PASTON,I,663.227.6844

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_227:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be +gour Voluntyne Mergery Brews PASTON,I,663.227.6845

<Q_PAS_C_1481?_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_228> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,664>

{ED:417._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PERHAPS_1481,_1_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipful master John Paston , in haste . </font>
PASTON,I,664.228.6846

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Right $reuerent {TEXT:reuernt} and worshipfull ser , in my moste vmble
vice I recomaunde me vnto yow as lowly as I can , &c .
PASTON,I,664.228.6847

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Plese yow to wete John Howes , Alexander Qwharteyn , John Fille , wyth
the parson and the newe myller of Marlyngforth , haue goten Thom at
Welles carte of Estetodenham , fermor to myn vncle William Paston ,
Herry Herby of Meelton Magna , fermour and baly to my seide vncle ,
Richard Barkers carte of the seide towne of Meelton , late fermour and
yette is in daunger to my seide vncle , and William Smythes carte of
Brandon iuxta Bernham Broom , late fermour and baly and also in daunger
to my seide vncle , on Monday and Twesday last past caryed a-wey from
Merlyngforth in-to the place at Seint Edmondes in Norwich xij of your
greete plankes , of the weche they made vj loodes , beryng a-bowte the
seide cartes bowes and gleves for feere of takyng a-wey .
PASTON,I,664.228.6848

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ser , as for your tenauntes of Marlyngforth , they wythholde her catell
and hem-selfe bothe from the coorte PASTON,I,664.228.6849

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and come not wythin the lordship PASTON,I,664.228.6850

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
nor make noon attornment , exept Thom Davy and John Water , weche
absentyng of the tenauntes is to them a greet hurt and los for lak of
sedyng of ther londes wyth ther wynter corn ; besechyng you for Godes
sake to remembre som remedy for them . PASTON,I,664.228.6851

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My Lady Caltorp hath ben at Geppeswich on pilgry-mache ,
PASTON,I,664.228.6852

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and came homward be my lady of Norffolk , PASTON,I,664.228.6853

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and ther was moche cominicacion of your mater be-twix you and myn vncle
, seyng to my Lady Caltorp ye nede not a go to London , ye myght haue
had an ende at home , rememberyng to my seid Lady Caltorp of the mocion
that he made towchyng the maner of Sporle , promyttyng to my lady to
a-bide +tat and to write and seale as largely as any man wol desire hym
; PASTON,I,664.228.6854

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and at hes departyng from my lady he was not mery ,
PASTON,I,664.228.6855

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
what the cauce was I wot not . PASTON,I,664.228.6856

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My Lady Calthorp desireth me to write to yow to haue ende ,
PASTON,I,664.228.6857

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he intendes largely to haue <P_I,665> a peace wyth you , as he seth
, PASTON,I,665.228.6858

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but truste hym not to moche PASTON,I,665.228.6859

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he is not goode . PASTON,I,665.228.6860

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My mother in lawe thynketh longe she here no word from you .
PASTON,I,665.228.6861

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She is in goode heele , blissed be God , and all your babees also .
PASTON,I,665.228.6862

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I mervel I here no word from you , weche greveth me ful evele .
PASTON,I,665.228.6863

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I sent you a letter be Brasiour sone of Norwiche , wher-of I here no
word . PASTON,I,665.228.6864

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more to you at this tyme , but Almyghty Jesu haue you in hes blissed
kepyng . PASTON,I,665.228.6865

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Norwich on Allowmes Day at nyght . Be yowre seruaunt and
bedewoman Margery Paston PASTON,I,665.228.6866

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Ser , I prey you if ye tary longe at London +tat it wil plese
{ED:you}_NP-OB2 to sende for me , PASTON,I,665.228.6867

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_228:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for I thynke longe sen I lay in your armes . PASTON,I,665.228.6868

<Q_PAS_C_1481?_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_229> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,665>

{ED:418._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_PERHAPS_1481,_4_NOVEMBER}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wurchupfull mayster John Paston , esquyer , be this
letter delyuerd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,665.229.6869

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Myne owyn swete hert , jn my most humyl wyse I recomaund me on-to you ,
desyryng hertly to here of youre welfar , the wheche I beseche
Allemyghty God preserue and kepe to his pleser and youre hertys desyer
. PASTON,I,665.229.6870

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Sere , the cause of my wrytyng to you at this tyme : on Friday att
nyght last past come Alexander Wharton , John Hous , and John Fylle ,
wyth ij good cartys well mannyd and horsyd wyth hem , to Marlyngford ,
PASTON,I,665.229.6871

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and there at +te maner of Marlyngford and at the mille lodyn bothe
cartys wyth mestlyon and whete , PASTON,I,665.229.6872

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and betymys on Saturday in the mornyng they departyd fro Marlyngford
towardys Bongey , as it is seyd ; PASTON,I,665.229.6873

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for the seyd cartys come fro Bongey , as I soppose by the sendyng of
Bryon , PASTON,I,665.229.6874

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he goth hastyly ouer +te se , as it is seyd , PASTON,I,665.229.6875

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as I suppose he wyll haue the mestlyon ouer wyth hym ,
PASTON,I,665.229.6876

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for the most part of the cart loodys was mestlyon , &c .
PASTON,I,665.229.6877

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , on Saturday last past I spacke wyth my cosyn Gornay ,
PASTON,I,665.229.6878

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seyd if I wold goo to my lady of Norffolk and besech hyr good
grace to be youre good and gracyous lady , she wold so be ;
PASTON,I,665.229.6879

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he seyd that on word of a woman shuld do more than the wordys of xx
men , yiffe I coude rewyll <P_I,666> my tonge and speke non harme of
myn vnkyll . PASTON,I,666.229.6880

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And if ye comaund me so for to do , I trist I shuld sey nothyng to my
ladys displesure , but to youre profyt ; PASTON,I,666.229.6881

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for me thynkyth by the wordys of them , and of youre good fermore of
Oxned , that they wyll sone drawe to an ende ; PASTON,I,666.229.6882

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he cursyth the tyme that euer he come in the ferme of Oxned ,
PASTON,I,666.229.6883

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he seyth +tat he wotyth well that he shall haue a grette losse ,
PASTON,I,666.229.6884

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and yet he wyll not be aknowyn wheder he hathe payd or nought ;
PASTON,I,666.229.6885

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but whan he seth his tyme he wyll sey trowth . PASTON,I,666.229.6886

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I vnderstond by my seyd cosyn Gornay that my lady is nere wery of hyr
parte , PASTON,I,666.229.6887

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he seyth my lady shal come on pylgremage in-to this towne ,
PASTON,I,666.229.6888

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but he knowyth not wheder afore Cristmes or aftyr ;
PASTON,I,666.229.6889

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and if I wold thanne gete my Lady Calthorpe , my moder in lawe , and my
moder and my-selfe , and come before my lady besychyng hyr to be youre
good and gracyous lady , he thynkyth ye shull haue an ende ,
PASTON,I,666.229.6890

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for fayne she wold be redde of it , wyth hyr onowre sauyd ,
PASTON,I,666.229.6891

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
but yette money she wold haue . PASTON,I,666.229.6892

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Nomore to you at this tyme , butte I mervell sore that I haue no letter
from you . PASTON,I,666.229.6893

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
I prey God preserve you and send me good tydyngys from you , and spede
you well in youre materys . PASTON,I,666.229.6894

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for me , I haue gotyn me anothyr logyn felawe ;
PASTON,I,666.229.6895

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
the ferst letter of hyr name is Mastras Byschoppe .
PASTON,I,666.229.6896

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
She recomaundyth hyr to you by the same tokyn that ye wold haue had a
tokyn to my mayster Bryon . PASTON,I,666.229.6897

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Att Norwych the Sonday next after the fest of All Seyntys .
PASTON,I,666.229.6898

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:37?
LETTER:PASTON_229:M4:1481?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Be yowre seruaunt and bedewoman Margery Paston PASTON,I,666.229.6899

<Q_PAS_C_1486_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_230> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,666>

{ED:419._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1486,_21_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
<font> To my mastyr John Paston be this delyvird . </font>
PASTON,I,666.230.6900

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ryght reuerent and wortschepfull syre , jn my most vmbill weysse I
recomaunde me to you , desyryng to here of your welfare , the wytche I
beseche God to preserve to his plesur and to your hartys desyir .
PASTON,I,666.230.6901

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I thank you for the venyson that ye sent me .
PASTON,I,666.230.6902

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And youre schepe is seylyd owte of +te havene as this daye .
PASTON,I,666.230.6903

<P_I,667>

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I send you be my brodyr Wyllem your stomachere of damaske .
PASTON,I,667.230.6904

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for youre teppet of velvet , it is not here ; PASTON,I,667.230.6905

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
An seythe that ye put yt jn your casket at London .
PASTON,I,667.230.6906

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , your chyldryn be jn goode helle , bellsside be God .
PASTON,I,667.230.6907

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I prey you sende me the gowild that I spak to you of be the nexst
man that comythe to Norwytche . PASTON,I,667.230.6908

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , your mast that laye at Yermowythe is letyn to a scheppe of Hull
for xiij s. iiij d. ; PASTON,I,667.230.6909

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ther fawyll ony hurt ther-to ye schall have a new mast ther-for
. PASTON,I,667.230.6910

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
No mor to you at this tyme , but Almyty God have you in his kepyng .
PASTON,I,667.230.6911

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wretyn at Castyr Hawill the xxj daye of Janeuer jn the furst yere of
Kyng Harry the vij=th= . Be your seruaunt Margery Paston
PASTON,I,667.230.6912

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_230:M4:1486:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I prey God no ladyis no more ovyr-com you that ye geve no lenggar
respyt jn your materys . PASTON,I,667.230.6913

<Q_PAS_C_1489_FN_MAPASTON> <L_PASTON_231> <A_MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_I,667>

{ED:420._TO_JOHN_PASTON_III_1489,_10_FEBRUARY}

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my rygth wurchypful maystyr Syr John Paston , knyth , +tis
lettyr be delyveryd in hast . </font> PASTON,I,667.231.6914

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Rygth reuerent and worchypfull syr , in +te most owmble wyse I recomand
me vn-to yow , desyryng to here of yowre welfare , +te qwech God long
contynew . PASTON,I,667.231.6915

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Syr , myn brodyr Wyllyam recomawnd hym on-to yow ,
PASTON,I,667.231.6916

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and as for +te lettyr +tat +ge sent on-to hym , he hath schewyd my lord
+te entent +ter-off PASTON,I,667.231.6917

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he thynkyth hym-self +tat it is no part of hys dute` to have any
part of +te fysch ore any mony +tat schuld grow +ter-of .
PASTON,I,667.231.6918

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Never +te lasse my lord , acordyng as yowre desyre was in +te letter ,
had qwestyond John a Lowe of thys fych , a-for +te comyng of John
Danyel , what he had doon <P_I,668> wyth-all , PASTON,I,668.231.6919

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and he aunswerd as for +te nedyre chavyll +ter-of he had put it in
sewrte` and leyd it in a howse be-cawse yowre debyte` seasyd it to my
lordys vse tyll it myth be vndyrstond wedyre +te propyrte` ware in +te
Kyng or in my lord . PASTON,I,668.231.6920

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And so my lord held hym well content it schud be so , in so moch as +te
Kyng and my lord have comawndyd John a Lowe +tat thys forsayd chavyll
schuld be browth vp to +te Kyng in all goodly hast .
PASTON,I,668.231.6921

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Fardermore my brodyr Wyllyam perseyvyd be yowre wrytyng +tat ye cowd
make +te remnawnth of +te fych worth a iiij li. to my lord .
PASTON,I,668.231.6922

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lord wold +ge schuld not trobyll yowre-self no more wyth-all
be-cawse he thynkyth +tat +te propyrte` is not in hym .
PASTON,I,668.231.6923

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And also anodyre , my brodyre Wyllyam heryth sey in +te corte +tat +te
Kyng and my lord be content +tat +te remenavnt of +te fych be to +te
vse of them of +te cuntre` , +te wech +ge schall here +te more serteyn
+ter-of here-after . PASTON,I,668.231.6924

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also my broder Wyllyam seyth +tat my lord wyllyd yow +tat +ge schuld
send +te retorne of +te comyscion as hastyly as +ge can ,
PASTON,I,668.231.6925

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and mervell +tat +ge hath not sent it vp or thys .
PASTON,I,668.231.6926

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
As tovardys +te brekyng vp of +te parlement , many lykelywoodys +ter be
+tat it schuld contynew no wyle , PASTON,I,668.231.6927

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and thes be they . PASTON,I,668.231.6928

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
My lord +te Archebyschop of Yorke departyd as +gysterday ,
PASTON,I,668.231.6929

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and my lord of Northethomyrlond schall goo as on Fryday ,
PASTON,I,668.231.6930

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and also all schuch folkys as schall goo in-to Breten schall be at
Portysmowth on Satyrday cum forthnyth , and +te Munday after on see
bord , at wech seassun +te Kyng intentyd to be +ter to take +te mustyrs
. PASTON,I,668.231.6931

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And as for thos jantylmen that toke schippyng to a gon over in-to
Breten vp-on a fortnyth a-goo , +tat is to sey Syr Richard Egecum +te
cowntrollere , Syr Roberd Clyfford , Syr John Trobylvyll , and Johon
Motton , sariant porter , be a-ryvyd a-geyn vp-on +te cost of Yngland ,
save all-only Syr Richard Egecum wech londyd in Breten and +ter was in
a towne callyd Morleys , wech a-non vp-on hys comyng was besegyd wyth
+te Frenchmen , and so skapyd hardly wyth hys lyff ; +te wech towne +te
Frenchemen have gotyn , and also +te towne callyd Breest , how-be-it
+te castell holdyth as we here say . PASTON,I,668.231.6932

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And +ter be apoyntyd serteyn captens as thys seasun , wech be Lord
Bruke , Syr John Cheney , Syr John of Arundell , Syr John Becham , Syr
John Gray , myn broder Awdley , myn vnkyll Syr Gylberd Debnam , and
Thomas Stafford and many odyr knytys and esqwyrys .
PASTON,I,668.231.6933

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , syr , I thanke yow for +te lettyr +tat +ge sent me .
PASTON,I,668.231.6934

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , syr , I have fulfyllyd myn pylgremage , thanke-it be God .
PASTON,I,668.231.6935

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , syr , we vndyrstond +tat it is anactyd of euery x merke of
mevable goodys xxd. to +te Kyng , be-syd +te tennyth of euery mannys
londys . PASTON,I,668.231.6936

<P_I,669>

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
And , syr , my brodyre Heydon schall send yow +te serteyn of all odyre
thyngys grawntyd at thys parlement , PASTON,I,669.231.6937

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
for he hath cawsed John Danyell to tery all thys day for hys letter ,
be-cawse he was wyth +te Kyng at Westmestre +tat he myth not entend to
wryth it tyl nyth . PASTON,I,669.231.6938

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , syr , Master Calthorp hath payd j c merke to +te Kyng .
PASTON,I,669.231.6939

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also , syr , I have delyuerd +te x li. to Master Hawes and reseywyd of
hym +te oblygacion . PASTON,I,669.231.6940

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Also I have delyuerd +te xx=ti= merke to Edmund Dorman be my brodyr
Heydons comawndment . PASTON,I,669.231.6941

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
No more to yow at thys tyme , but God and +te Holy Trinyte` have yow in
here kepyng ; PASTON,I,669.231.6942

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
and myn syster Anne wyth all +te company recomawnd hem on-to yow .
PASTON,I,669.231.6943

AUTHOR:MARGERY_PASTON[N.BREWS]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:HUSBAND:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_231:M4:1489:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te x day of Februare . Be yowre seruaunt Margery
Paston PASTON,I,669.231.6944

<Q_PAS_C_1425_T_NICHOLAS> <L_PASTON_232> <A_NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,1>

{ED:422._FROM_NICHOLAS,_PRIOR_OF_BROMHOLM_1425,_5_JULY}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
A William Paston soit donne` . PASTON,II,1.232.6945

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dere syre and weel be-loued , I grete yow weel PASTON,II,1.232.6946

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and do yow to wetyn +tat Dawn John Paston was atte Norwich on Munday
last passed and dede settyn on Crystechyrche yates diuers letteres a
lytyl tyme , and ij copijs wheche stondyn +ter yet , for somounyn me to
+te curt of Rome . PASTON,II,1.232.6947

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And we supposyn to haue hym atte Bromholm , or sum man in hys name ,
wythinne a lytyl tyme ; PASTON,II,1.232.6948

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for Dawn Robert of Yorke was atte Norwich be sendyng of my lady of
Murlee , PASTON,II,1.232.6949

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and spak wyth hym in hyre hous on Munday afornseyd ,
PASTON,II,1.232.6950

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +ter he told +te forseyd Dawn Robert +tat he wolde nedys ben Priour
of $Bromholm to leuyn and deyin +ter-vpon . PASTON,II,1.232.6951

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also he seyde as for +te composission of Bromholm he hadde do sherchyd
$atte Clunye , PASTON,II,1.232.6952

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +ter-inne he standyth clere , as he seyth . PASTON,II,1.232.6953

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for prouisyon he seyde he hadde spoken wyth +te $Chauncelere and
+te Chef Justyse and Ascam , PASTON,II,1.232.6954

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tei demptyn hym clere as +ter-inne , as he seyth ;
PASTON,II,1.232.6955

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and other dowte is +ter non $inne , be hys tale . PASTON,II,1.232.6956

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And after +tis +te forseyd Dawn John askyd obedience of +te forseyd
Dawn Robert in my ladyis presens , PASTON,II,1.232.6957

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Dawn Robert seyde ageyn he xulde noghte don +tat atte +tat tyme ,
PASTON,II,1.232.6958

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but he badde hym prouyn owt hys purpos as for +te composission and +te
prouysion to an hende , PASTON,II,1.232.6959

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tan he wolde do hys deuer to hym ; PASTON,II,1.232.6960

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tus hee departyd . PASTON,II,1.232.6961

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Where-for yif ony +ting may be don whyl ye arn now atte London for owre
helpe and hys lettyng , gode syre , helpyth atte +tis tyme yif it may
be godely , we be-seche yow . PASTON,II,1.232.6962

<P_II,2>

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dawn Thomas of Cane was atte my lord of Norwich for helpe in +tis
matier , PASTON,II,2.232.6963

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyde he was inhibytyd and all hys clerkys be +te curt of Rome
in +tis matier , PASTON,II,2.232.6964

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyde be yowre aduys , yif it lyke yow , wryttys may ben taken
ayens hym and +tat is best remedye +ter-inne : PASTON,II,2.232.6965

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
j wrytte is ne ingrediatur manu forti . PASTON,II,2.232.6966

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trinite` haue yow in gouernaunce . PASTON,II,2.232.6967

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn atte Bromholm +te v day of Julij . PASTON,II,2.232.6968

AUTHOR:NICHOLAS_OF_BOMHOLM:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:47
LETTER:PASTON_232:M3:1425:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Per Nicholaum Priorem de Bromholm PASTON,II,2.232.6969

<Q_PAS_C_1426_T_EROTHENHALE> <L_PASTON_233> <A_ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,2>

{ED:423._FROM_ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE_ABOUT_1426,_26_JAN.}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
A moun trescher et bien ame` cosin William Paston soit donne` .
PASTON,II,2.233.6970

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dere and weel beloued cosyn , I grete yow weel , thankyng yow of alle
trewe and frendely frendeschepes aforn +tis tyme on-to me schewed ,
euermore trostyng of yowre good contenewaunce . PASTON,II,2.233.6971

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And plese it yow to wete of my welfare , PASTON,II,2.233.6972

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
at +te makyng of +tis lettre I was in hele of body , blessed be God ,
but nothyng in ease of herte , for as mech as I haue vnderstande be
diuers persones +tat I schulde be gretliche indetted anemps Steyard for
my lordes dette , whos soule God assoylle ; which dette drawith vij li.
and j pype wyn , of +te wich I hadde neuere knowlech of my lord be his
lyue , nowthere be mowthe , be writyng , be taylle , ne be record ,
sauf only of ij pipes wyn for me and j pipe for my modere elawe , of
+te which I haue paied xx s . PASTON,II,2.233.6973

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And trewly , cosyn , myn herte is rith heuy for his ontrewe askyng ,
PASTON,II,2.233.6974

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for sithen +te deth of my lord he meued neuere +tis matere on-to +tis
tyme ; PASTON,II,2.233.6975

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for which <P_II,3> tyme as I was at Jernemouth abydyng in +te Frere
Carmes +te tyme of pestelens his wif come on-to me at +tat same tyme ,
bisechyng me to be good lady on-to hym , PASTON,II,3.233.6976

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and at +tat tyme he asked nomore but only for ij pipes wyn for me and j
for my moder elawe . PASTON,II,3.233.6977

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also in heruest last passed , swech tyme as he was seek and lich to
haue be ded , I sent on-to hym for +te seid mater .
PASTON,II,3.233.6978

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He at +tat tyme , in presence of John of Berneye , cowde aske nomore
but fore +te seid iij <em> pipes , my </em> moderes and myn . Wherfore
me thenkyth his askyng is on-trewe ; PASTON,II,3.233.6979

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also , as I suppose , my lord <em> hadde ... </em> be +te dayes of
his lyue $no gret nede to haue be dettour to hym of so gret a summe ,
PASTON,II,3.233.6980

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and if he hadde , trewly I knew hym so weel he wolde <em> ... </em> me
or summe of his concel pryue` to +te seid dette , as he dede of othere
diuers thynges . PASTON,II,3.233.6981

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And therfore , cosyn , I beseche yow for +te grete trost +tat my lord
hadde in yow , makyng yow on of his feffeez and also on his attorne`s ,
as for on of his best trosted frendes , and also for +te special trost
+tat I haue in yow aforn alle othere creatures , +tat ye wolde
vouchesauf in easyng of myn herte to concidere +tat ye and I be
disgarged anemps +te Kyng as for +te dette of Steyard , as ye wele I be
in hele and ease , whech wele nogth veryly be on-to +te tyme I haue
youre good auys in +tis seid maters . PASTON,II,3.233.6982

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nomore at +tis tyme , $but Almythty God haue yow in his kepyng .
PASTON,II,3.233.6983

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_ROTHENHALE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:48
LETTER:PASTON_233:M3:1426:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Castre +te day aftere +te Conuercion of Seint Poule .
PASTON,II,3.233.6984

<Q_PAS_C_1431_T_RWILLOUGHBY> <L_PASTON_234> <A_ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,3>

{ED:424._FROM_ROBERT_LORD_WILLOUGHBY_1431,_8_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:53
LETTER:PASTON_234:M4:1431:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To oure right trusty and welbeloued frend William Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,3.234.6985

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:53
LETTER:PASTON_234:M4:1431:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued frende , we grete yow wel with al oure hert
. PASTON,II,3.234.6986

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:53
LETTER:PASTON_234:M4:1431:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for asmuche as for the greet plaisirs and kyndenesses , good and
notable seruices and frendeships whiche oure brother Sire William
Oldhalle and Margarite oure suster his wyf haue doon and shewed vs in
tyme passed , and yit do daily in diuers wyses , and for the greet and
notable <P_II,4> sommes of good whiche oure saide brother Oldhalle hath
lent vnto vs and payed for vs out of his pourse at oure nede , the
whiche we owe hym yit in trewe dette for monneye lent and for noo
no+ter cause , we jn recompense of the saide seruices and in
acquittence of the saide dette haue yeven vnto oure said brother
Oldhalle and Margarite his wyff an annuite` and pension of vj=xx= marc
by yere duryng thaire lyffs and the lenger lyuyng of thaym bothe for to
bee taken and raysed by thaym yerely vpon certaine landes , lordships ,
and tenementes of oures withynne Northfolk and Suffolk , jn the whiche
ye stande by vs feffed vnto oure behooue , liche as by the lettres ,
deedes , and endentures whiche we haue doo make +terevppon vnto oure
said brother Oldhalle and Margarite his wyff ye shal more clerely see .
We pray and require yow right hertily ; and as oure faithful trust is
in yow in this matere , and also we charge yow as ye wol answere
+terefore before God and also vnto vs , that after the fourme , teneur
, contenue , and effecte of the deedes , lettres , and endentures maad
and passed +terevppon and after oure wil and entent in this matere , ye
make ful and plain estat vnto oure said brother Oldhalle and Margarite
his wyff duryng thaire lyffs and of the lenger lyuyng of thaym of the
saide annuite` and pension of vj=xx= marc yerely in the landes and
tenementes declared , named , and specified in the saide deedes ,
lettres , and endentures withynne the contees of Northfolk and of
Suffolk abouuesaide ; and +tat ye faille not hereof in noowise as euere
ye desire to doo +ting for vs and as oure ful trust is in yow , for
thees oure lettres shal bee vnto yow +terefore suffisant warant and
discharge at alle tymes and in alle places $where $hit {TEXT:wherehit}
apparteneth ; and that ye seelle the same deede endented whiche we send
yow with thees oure lettres . PASTON,II,4.234.6987

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:53
LETTER:PASTON_234:M4:1431:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen vndir oure seel at Pontdelarche the viij day of Janiuer the yere
of oure Lord m=l=cccc and xxx and of the regne of oure souerain lord
King Henry the vj=the= after the Conqueste the ix=the= .
PASTON,II,4.234.6988

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:53
LETTER:PASTON_234:M4:1431:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wylughby Robert Lord of Willughby and of Beaumesnil
PASTON,II,4.234.6989

<Q_PAS_B_1436_T_JGYN> <L_PASTON_235> <A_JOHN_GYN> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,4>

{ED:425._FROM_JOHN_GYN_ABOUT_1436,_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To +te worthy and worshipfull ser and my good lord and maister
William Paston , on of +te justices of oure souereign lord of his
Commune Benche at Westminster . </font> PASTON,II,4.235.6990

<P_II,5>

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worthy and worshipfull ser and my good lord and maister , I
recomaund me to yow . PASTON,II,5.235.6991

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where-as ye by your lettre direct to my lady your wyf wold +tat my
seid lady shuld have Robert Tebald and me to-geder as sone as she myght
, and +te evidences which +te seid Robert receyved of yow at your last
beyng at Norwich , and +tat I shuld amende +te defautes +ter-jnne , and
+tat +tat doon +tere shuld of Baxteres place of Honyng be taken estate
to yow and to o+ter as your seid lettre requireth ; prey and beseche
yow to witte +tat on +te Friday next after your departyng fro Paston
Thomas Walyssh and William Burgh in his owen persone , and +te seid
Thomas by William Inges and William Walsyngham his attorne`s by his
lettre vnder his seal , were at Honyng and delyvred to my Lady Scarlet
seson in +te seid place and Colbyes and Dounynges in Walsham .
PASTON,II,5.235.6992

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +te seid Thomas Walyssh , as +te seid Tebald told me , wold not
enseale +te seid lettre of attorne` til +te parson of Ingeworth come to
hym +ter-fore and required hym to don it . PASTON,II,5.235.6993

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wychyngham in his owen person in +te nyght next beforn +te seid Friday
, as +te seid Tebald infourmeth me , come to +te same Tebaldes hows
PASTON,II,5.235.6994

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and desired hym to enseale acquytaunce , as he seid ,
PASTON,II,5.235.6995

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +te same Robert refused to don it . PASTON,II,5.235.6996

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nerthelesse , whether it were acquytaunce or were not +te same Robert
kan not seye , PASTON,II,5.235.6997

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he myght noo sight have +terof . PASTON,II,5.235.6998

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +te seid Wychyngham +te same nyght rood to John Willyot
PASTON,II,5.235.6999

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and desired of hym +te same , PASTON,II,5.235.7000

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and refused also to don it . PASTON,II,5.235.7001

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
What is +te best to be don in +tis matier my seid lady your wyf kan not
thynke with-owt your advis and counseill . Wherfore as touchyng +te
takyng of +t'estate to yow and o+ter , as in your seid lettre is
conteigned , is yet right nought doon . PASTON,II,5.235.7002

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trinite` have yow in his blissed kepyng . PASTON,II,5.235.7003

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Northwalsham +te Thursday next after +te Purificacion of Oure
Lady . PASTON,II,5.235.7004

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My seid lady your wyf preyeth yow to be remembred of here grene gynger
, of almondes for Lente , and of +te leche of Orwelle ,
PASTON,II,5.235.7005

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for here seknes encreseth dayly vpon here , wher-of she is sore a-ferd
. PASTON,II,5.235.7006

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:58
LETTER:PASTON_235:M4:1436:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
By youre seruaunt John Gyn PASTON,II,5.235.7007

<Q_PAS_D_1442_FO_ACHAMBRE> <L_PASTON_236> <A_ALIANOR_CHAMBRE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,6>

{ED:426._FROM_ALIANOR_CHAMBRE_ABOUT_1442,_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> Rygth worchypfull and reuerent sire , William Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,6.236.7008

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Rygth worchypfull and reuerent sire , I recomande me vn-to +gow
PASTON,II,6.236.7009

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and thank +gow of +gowre grete labure that +ge hade to me att Sparham
the laste tyme that we spakun to-gydure . PASTON,II,6.236.7010

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for os myche , sire , os +ge hadde no leysure att that tyme +ge
desyreid I schyde sende to +gow to London now afture this Halowmese ,
PASTON,II,6.236.7011

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there +ge seyde +ge schyde haue betture leysure
PASTON,II,6.236.7012

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and granteid me fully that +ge schowlde orden that I schowlde haue
lavfull a-state terme of my lyfe in the departyson that was grantid
betwex +gow and me to-fore soch that was there for my hosbond and for
me att that tyme ; prayng +gow that it may be done now and deliuerid to
my brodure Jon Chambre or to Jon Coke owre seruant , brynger of this
letture . PASTON,II,6.236.7013

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , gode sire , that this may be done in as godely haste os {in}_P
+ge may , os my tryste is in +gow , PASTON,II,6.236.7014

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for thei haue not long leysur here for odure ocupaciounis that they
muste haue of owreis ; PASTON,II,6.236.7015

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and allso , sire , I sende +gow here be hem the dede of annvite`
a-seleid vndure my $hosbondis synet and myne that I muste pay +gerely
to +gowre childure . PASTON,II,6.236.7016

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And tharfore I pray +gow that they may be delyuerid vndure scrypture
and +gowre sele , leke os they schall deliuer +gow $tho that longid
vn-to vs ; PASTON,II,6.236.7017

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I tryst to God all that euer we made +gow promise vn owre party it
is and schall be parformeid , PASTON,II,6.236.7018

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and tharfore I pray +gow , os owre tryst is fully in +gow , that +ge
wil parforme the promise that +ge seyde to me that longit in +gowre
parte . PASTON,II,6.236.7019

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
No more I wryte att this tyme , but the Holy Blesyd Trinite` haue +gow
in his kepyng body and soule . PASTON,II,6.236.7020

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryton att Welouby on Sonday afture de day of Sent Martyn .
PASTON,II,6.236.7021

AUTHOR:ALIANOR_CHAMBRE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_236:M4:1442:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Gowre Alianor Chambre PASTON,II,6.236.7022

<Q_PAS_C_1442_T_JMARYOT> <L_PASTON_237> <A_JOAN_MARYOT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,7>

{ED:428._FROM_JOAN_MARYOT:COPY_PROBABLY_1442,_COPIED_AFTER_1480}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

<P_II,8>

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To my ryght wurshefull and trosty master Wyllyam Paston ,
PASTON,II,8.237.7023

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Justice Wurshefull and ryght trosty master , I comaund me vnto you ,
desyryng to here of youre wurshep and welfare , the whych God kepe to
hys plesyng and to $youre owne hartes desyre , prayng you euermore of
youre good mastershep and of youre good continwanse ; prayng you at the
reuerense of God to hold me excused of $the lewde and on-connyng
langage the whych I answered you wyth at youre being at Crowmer .
PASTON,II,8.237.7024

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For so helpe me God and holydom I seyd it nowt to you for $no bade
trost +tat I haue in you , but only to late you to wetyn what
temptaciones +tat I haue hadde by that same persone +tat I told you of
and be oder many moo +tat <em> wil not </em> awow yt in +te same maner
, savyng youre reuerence , as fals men don and my bodyly enmys .
PASTON,II,8.237.7025

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , wurshefull and trosty master , and as for +tat I shuld $haue the
maner in ferme in swych fourme as +ge comoned of $before my neybores at
Crowmer , I prey yow at the reuerense of God +tat +ge wil do youre
$good mastershyp +terin as +ge haue don by-fore tyme ;
PASTON,II,8.237.7026

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for as +ge do I will stande therto , PASTON,II,8.237.7027

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I haue comoned wyth owre veker and wyth oder frendes of $myn
PASTON,II,8.237.7028

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tey and I prey you euermore of yowre best counseyll therin .
PASTON,II,8.237.7029

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
No more to yow at thys tyme , but Jesu kepe yow both body and sowle .
PASTON,II,8.237.7030

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_237:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be yowre bedewoman Joane Maryet PASTON,II,8.237.7031

<Q_PAS_C_1442_T_JMARYOT> <L_PASTON_238> <A_JOAN_MARYOT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,8>

{ED:429._JOAN_MARYOT:COPY_PROBABLY_1442,_30_MAY,_COPIED_AFTER_1480 }

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To my wurshefull maister Justice of the Kyng William Paston
PASTON,II,8.238.7032

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wurshefull mayster and reuerent souerayn , I comaund me to yow euer as
yowre powr bedewoman , desyryng euer to heren of youre good welfare
wyth prosperite` and good lyf to the plesyng of God , praing you
euermore of youre good mastershepe and cownsell in the mater the whych
is for the <P_II,9> maner of Estbecham , of the whyche mater +ge and we
comound of at Crowmer the last tyme +tat my sone and I spake wyth you .
PASTON,II,9.238.7033

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I hade lever , and so had John my sone , to haue an ende and ben in
seker possessyon wythin a yer to the bare maner wyth-outen ony reward
of dampmages than lenger abyden to stande in dowte of lawe and of youre
lyf and owre also ; PASTON,II,9.238.7034

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and how the ende be made and in $what tyme I consent
PASTON,II,9.238.7035

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and am wele pleased . PASTON,II,9.238.7036

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
No more at thys tyme , but the blysful Trynyte` haue you euer in kepyng
. PASTON,II,9.238.7037

AUTHOR:JOAN_MARYOT:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:64
LETTER:PASTON_238:M4:1442:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wrete at Crowmer the Wedenesday next afore Corpus Cristi Day . Be Joane
Maryete $yowre powre bedewoman PASTON,II,9.238.7038

<Q_PAS_A_1444_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_239> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378>

<P_II,11>

{ED:432._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_PROBABLY_1444,_28_January}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worthy and worshepfull lord , William Paston ,
Justice , in hast . </font> PASTON,II,11.239.7039

<P_II,12>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it your good lordship to wete +tat +tis day was +te first tyme
+tat I coude aspye +tat +te Chaunceller of +te Duche` was come to
London , PASTON,II,12.239.7040

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and at Westminster I spak with hym PASTON,II,12.239.7041

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid he was right weel remembred of your bille ,
PASTON,II,12.239.7042

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he seid he wyst not where it was ; PASTON,II,12.239.7043

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tanne he dede +te clerk of +te counseill of +te Duche` seke it ,
PASTON,II,12.239.7044

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and atte last it was founde . PASTON,II,12.239.7045

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +tanne I moeved hym whether it shuld be more expedient to yow to
haue a warant accordyng to +tat bille or ellis make a newe bille after
+te note +tat ye sent me of my maister John Pastons hand .
PASTON,II,12.239.7046

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he thought your first bille was best , for as meche as ye your-self
sewed it in +te counseill ; PASTON,II,12.239.7047

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I preyed hym +tat I myght haue a warant &c. , PASTON,II,12.239.7048

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid it was told yow +te last terme +tat +te lerned counseill of
+te Duche` shuld $sytte and +terup-on shuld ye haue a reasonable answer
. PASTON,II,12.239.7049

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he seith Heydon is oon of +te counseill which is not yet come and
Yn <em> ... </em> an-o+ter of +te counseil and +tei to-gedir shall se
your seid bille and +tanne if it be graunted he wole make a warant of a
date of +te last terme , &c . PASTON,II,12.239.7050

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as sone as +tei haue sen it I shall haue knowyng +terof if I may ,
PASTON,II,12.239.7051

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so +te Chaunceller byhested me . PASTON,II,12.239.7052

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Yisterday delyuered I your writte sub pena in +te Chauncery to +te
Maister of +te Rolles PASTON,II,12.239.7053

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and preyed hym to afile it with your bille +tat I hadde with me hedir
to London for your excuse , whiche $at $te {TEXT:atte} comaundement of
my lord Chaunceller I toke to +te Clerk of +te Rolles on Saterday last
passed , as I haue wretyn to yow . PASTON,II,12.239.7054

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +te Clerk of the Rolles toke your seid writte to Bates to endorse
+tat ye wer seek &c. and to afile it . PASTON,II,12.239.7055

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Besyngham hath a copie of +te bille ageynst yow and hym $at $te
{TEXT:atte} sute of Stapilton , PASTON,II,12.239.7056

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and hath withholde my maister Vampage PASTON,II,12.239.7057

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and trosteth to God to do right weel . PASTON,II,12.239.7058

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng +te justicez fees , no+ter my Maister Westbury ne Maister
Yeluerton , as it semeth , can telle what shulde be do +terto ;
PASTON,II,12.239.7059

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tei axe me if I shuld ought sewe to Bates for a liberate et
allocate for your arrerages , PASTON,II,12.239.7060

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I can telle hem right noght +terof . PASTON,II,12.239.7061

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My Maister Westbury seith oo liberate and oo alocate shuld serue alle
+te justicez PASTON,II,12.239.7062

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and Maister Yeluerton seith yche justice must haue on by hym-self for
his owyn part . PASTON,II,12.239.7063

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tus +tei talke <P_II,13> ther-of PASTON,II,13.239.7064

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but +tei do right noght . PASTON,II,13.239.7065

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my Maister Godered shall not come here +tis terme for seekenesse ;
PASTON,II,13.239.7066

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Geyton is come PASTON,II,13.239.7067

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seith he is take sodeynly +tat he hath no knowelage of no thyng ne
hath ioye in right noght but slepe . PASTON,II,13.239.7068

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tis day John Maryot axed me what shuld be do in +te matiers ageynst
hym , PASTON,II,13.239.7069

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I axed hym ageyn what he ment +ter-in . PASTON,II,13.239.7070

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he seid he hadde be with my Lord Suffolk PASTON,II,13.239.7071

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he told hym +tat he must fynde sewerte` to abyde his award , whiche
he hopeth weel to parfourme , as he seith , PASTON,II,13.239.7072

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he supposeth +tat my lord shall write to yow +terof ;
PASTON,II,13.239.7073

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he seith +tat he shall a-bide his awarde PASTON,II,13.239.7074

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and supposeth so shall ye , PASTON,II,13.239.7075

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +terfor hym semeth it shuld not nede to sewe for+ter +te proces ,
&c . PASTON,II,13.239.7076

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I seid a-geyn to hym it longed to me for to sewe +te processe ,
PASTON,II,13.239.7077

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for if eende and accorde betwen yow and hym take +ter shall no persone
be hurt by +te processe ; PASTON,II,13.239.7078

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seid also his teryyng in +tis toun is not tin +terfor ,
PASTON,II,13.239.7079

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and whanne he wolde he shuld haue his day and goo wheder he wolde ;
PASTON,II,13.239.7080

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tus departed . PASTON,II,13.239.7081

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My Maister Yeluerton hath assigned a nisi prius for Tasburgh to be at
Norwiche +te Tuysday next after +te secund shire of Norffolk after +tis
day , videlicet die Martii proximo post festum Sancti Gregorij , at
whiche tyme I shall take your nisi prius lesse +tanne I haue o+ter
comaundement of +te contrary from yow . PASTON,II,13.239.7082

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also I haue spoke with Drue Barantyn PASTON,II,13.239.7083

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he telleth me +tat he toke your bille to my lady of Suffolk ,
PASTON,II,13.239.7084

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and she was weel remembred of +te matier PASTON,II,13.239.7085

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seid ye shulde not nede to drede yow , PASTON,II,13.239.7086

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for she seid al shuld be weel ; PASTON,II,13.239.7087

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he coude telle me non o+ter answer , PASTON,II,13.239.7088

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he aduysed me to goo to my seid lady and to remembre her of +te
matier and to wete what answer it liked here ladiship of +tat bille ,
&c . PASTON,II,13.239.7089

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I seid ageyn to hym I supposed weel +tat I shuld not be admytted to
come to my ladyes presence , PASTON,II,13.239.7090

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tanne he seid I must make a mesne ; whiche I dar not take up-on me
, PASTON,II,13.239.7091

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I wot weel I coude not come to here presence with-owte a mesne of
sum of here men to whom I shuld telle al +te matier .
PASTON,II,13.239.7092

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if I shulde so do I myght telle it as weel to hym +tat wolde yow
not weel in +tis matier as to hym +tat wolde yow weel ,
PASTON,II,13.239.7093

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I am not acqueynted +tere with no man . PASTON,II,13.239.7094

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +terfor I shall do right noght +terto til I haue worde from yow
whether ye wole +tat I prey +te seid Barantyn to sewe to my lady for
answer or nay . PASTON,II,13.239.7095

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My seid lady of Suffolk is now in London , &c . PASTON,II,13.239.7096

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for my maister Fastolffes housyng in +te White Freres , a man of +te
Temple called Wynter lythe +terin PASTON,II,13.239.7097

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he hath not hired it , PASTON,II,13.239.7098

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for as I am enfourmed he is not lodged +terin nisi ad voluntatem domini
Fastolf , &c . PASTON,II,13.239.7099

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +te same Wynter hath an-o+ter place of his owyn in +te same Freres
. PASTON,II,13.239.7100

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Chief Justice of +te Kyngges Benche recomaundeth hym to yow
PASTON,II,13.239.7101

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and is right sory of +te matier +tat is cause of your noun comyng hedir
, PASTON,II,13.239.7102

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he wole do al +tat he can or may for yow . PASTON,II,13.239.7103

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He hath had a cyetica +tat hath <P_II,14> letted hym a gret while to
ride , PASTON,II,14.239.7104

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and dar not yet come on non horses bak . PASTON,II,14.239.7105

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +terfor he hath spoke to +te lordes of +te conseill and enformed
hem of your sekenesse and his also , +tat he may not ride at +tese next
assises to Estgrynsted ; PASTON,II,14.239.7106

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tough +toe assises discontynue pur noun uenu dez Justicez he
hopeth to be excused , and ye also . PASTON,II,14.239.7107

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for +te remenaunt of +te assises he shall puruey to be ther by
water . PASTON,II,14.239.7108

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty Jesu make yow heyle and strong . PASTON,II,14.239.7109

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn right symply +te Wednesseday next to-fore +te fest of the
Purificacion of Oure Lady at London . PASTON,II,14.239.7110

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1378:66
LETTER:PASTON_239:M4:1444:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
By your most symple seruaunt Jamys Gresham PASTON,II,14.239.7111

<Q_PAS_B_1430S_T_JGYN> <L_PASTON_240> <A_JOHN_GYN> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,21>

{ED:438._FROM_JOHN_GYN_PROBABLY_BEFORE_1440}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To +te worthy and worshipful ser and my good maister John Paston
of Trynyte` Hall in Cambrigge . </font> PASTON,II,21.240.7112

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worthy and worshipfull ser and my good maister , I comaund me to
yow . PASTON,II,21.240.7113

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Like it yow to witte +tat on +te Soneday next after +te Ascencion of
Oure Lord in +te high weye betwex Cambrigg and +te Bekyntre toward
Newmarket I fonde a purs with money +ter-jnne . PASTON,II,21.240.7114

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+T'entent of +tis my symple lettre is +tis : +tat it please to your
good maistership by weye of charite` and of your gentilnesse to witte
if ony of youre knowleche or ony o+ter , swich as yow semeth best in
your discrecion , have lost swich a purs ; PASTON,II,21.240.7115

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +te toknes +ter-of told he shal have it a-geyn , what +tat ever he
be , by +te grace of Oure Lord , who ever have yow in his blissed
kepyng . PASTON,II,21.240.7116

AUTHOR:JOHN_GYN:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_240:M4:1430S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Sneylewell +te Moneday next after +te seid Soneday . By youre
pover seruaunt John Gyn PASTON,II,21.240.7117

<Q_PAS_C_1443_T_JMOWBRSR> <L_PASTON_241> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,23>

{ED:440._JOHN_MOWBRAY,_THIRD_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_PROBABLY_BEFORE_JULY_
1443}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To oure right trusti and welbelouid John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,23.241.7118

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of Norffolk PASTON,II,23.241.7119

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Trusti and right welbelouid , we grete you weel , lating you witte that
for the trust that as weel we as the heires of Edmund Swathyng haue
vnto you we haue appoyntid you to be one of the makeres vp
indifferently of the euydences betwix vs and the seide heires . Wherfor
we pray you hertily +tat ye wil yeve attendaunce at such day and place
as {at}_P ye and our right $trusti and welbelouid frende William
Yeluerton , with oure welbelouid seruaunt Jenney , shal mow attende to
the making vp of the $seide euidencez ; PASTON,II,23.241.7120

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and we shal sende summe of our seruauntz to awayte vpon you for your
reward and costis +tat ye shal be pleasid with , <em> by the </em>
grace of God , who haue you euere in his keping . PASTON,II,23.241.7121

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten vndir our signet in oure Castel of Framlyngham the xviij day of
<em> ..._NP </em> . PASTON,II,23.241.7122

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:28
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:22
LETTER:PASTON_241:M4:1443:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Norffolk PASTON,II,23.241.7123

<Q_PAS_A_1445?_FS_JOSBERN> <L_PASTON_242> <A_JOHN_OSBERN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,25>

{ED:442._PROBABLY_FROM_JOHN_OSBERN_PERHAPS_ABOUT_1445}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

<P_II,26>

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Worchepeful mayster , I recomand me to yow ; PASTON,II,26.242.7124

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I pray yow to wete that I was at Katefeld in Cobbes place for to se
the armes as ye comaunded me , and +te feld is gold wyth iij bukkeles
of syluere mad on +te wyse as it is here wyth floweres of syluer on +te
bukkelis mad of iiij lyke a trewlove . PASTON,II,26.242.7125

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also , syr , I have spoke to a friere +tat is conuersaunt at Wykelwode
wyth Randolffis dowter , PASTON,II,26.242.7126

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he hath be-hestid me for to gete me Randolffis armes of hese dowter
Wyltones wyf ; PASTON,II,26.242.7127

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I have not yet spoke wyth +te friere a-yen . PASTON,II,26.242.7128

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also I pray yow to wete that I was at Mauteby , PASTON,II,26.242.7129

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ye have there cc combes of malt . PASTON,II,26.242.7130

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
If ye wyl gef for xiiij d. a comb in +te comes and xxj for xx ye shal
have redy mony , as I suppose , PASTON,II,26.242.7131

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Pykeryng sellyth for xj d. and <P_II,27> xij d. +te lest +tat hath
, as +te parsoun of Mauteby tellyth me . PASTON,II,27.242.7132

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +te parsoun and I have do throche your qwete ,
PASTON,II,27.242.7133

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it was ete wyth myse to petowsly for to se . PASTON,II,27.242.7134

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if it plese yow I pray yow +tat ye wyl send me word qwhedyre ye wyl
selle your malt and your qhete aftyre +te prise of +te countre` or it
shal be purveyid fore to kepe it til ye may se it .
PASTON,II,27.242.7135

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I have spoke to Laverauns Reede for +te ferme ,
PASTON,II,27.242.7136

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he wyl not take it , as I conseyve , til he speke wyth yow .
PASTON,II,27.242.7137

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I supposed for to a made a comenaunt wyth hym , PASTON,II,27.242.7138

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he hath no sewerte` yet PASTON,II,27.242.7139

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the londis shal not be in your handes til Myhelmes , as he seyth ;
PASTON,II,27.242.7140

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
there-fore he is the more terying , &c . PASTON,II,27.242.7141

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:24?
LETTER:PASTON_242:M4:1445?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I beseche All-myti Jesu spede yow and kepe yow . PASTON,II,27.242.7142

<Q_PAS_A_1448_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_243> <A_JAMES_GLOYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,27>

{ED:443._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_1448,_22_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wurchepfull $Master John Paston be this $deliuered
in hast . </font> PASTON,II,27.243.7143

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Right reuerent and wurchepfull ser , I recomand me to yow , desyryng to
here of yowre welfare , the which gracyows God contynually preserue and
kepe to yowre gostly hele and bodily welfare ; prayng yow to wete that
as for the broke syluer that my mastres wend for to a sent yow whan she
dede wryte here letter , there is non in yowre forcere .
PASTON,II,27.243.7144

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
She supposyd that ye left it at Norwhiche in yowre cofere , where-of ye
haue the key . PASTON,II,27.243.7145

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also my mastres yowre moder grete yow wele PASTON,II,27.243.7146

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and pray yow to send here word how she shall do with Edward of Whode of
Paston , PASTON,II,27.243.7147

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for she dede seys his corn on the lond the last hervest
PASTON,II,27.243.7148

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he led it a-wey after that it whas seysyd withowth licens and leve
of here or any of here offycerys . PASTON,II,27.243.7149

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my mastres yowre syster recomand here hertly to yow
PASTON,II,27.243.7150

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and pray yow that and ye wold wochesaff to speke to my Master Edmund
and pray hym if that he hath bowth here gere that she sent to hym fore
that <P_II,28> he wold send it here home ; in cas that he haue not
bowth it , that he wold be it and sent it here in all the hast that
{in}_P he may goodly . PASTON,II,28.243.7151

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Forthermore , if it plese yow to here of my Master Berney , he was at
Gresham with my mastres on the Tuysday next after Halwemasday , the
same day that we dystreynyd Jamys Rokkysson ; PASTON,II,28.243.7152

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I had mette a litill a-fore with Partrych , PASTON,II,28.243.7153

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he thrett me PASTON,II,28.243.7154

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sayd that we shuld not long kepe the dystresse ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7155

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there-fore my mastres dede vs don on owre jakkys and owre salettys
. PASTON,II,28.243.7156

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My Master Berney cam in and the parson of Oxened with hym ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7157

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sey vs in owre jakkys ; PASTON,II,28.243.7158

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he wexe as pale as any herd PASTON,II,28.243.7159

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wold right fayn a ben thens . PASTON,II,28.243.7160

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
So my mastres dede hym dyne , PASTON,II,28.243.7161

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and whill thei where at dynere Herry Collys told my mastres openly
a-mong vs all that the same tyme that Partrych entryd a-geyn vp-on yow
his master was at Causton to yow ward , PASTON,II,28.243.7162

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there it was told hym that Partrych had putt yow owth and all yowre
men , and that ye and my mastres where redyn a-geyn to Norwhich , and
all yowre howshold ; PASTON,II,28.243.7163

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and that causyd hym that he cam no forthere that tyme .
PASTON,II,28.243.7164

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my Master Berney confermyd all this PASTON,II,28.243.7165

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seyd that it was so . PASTON,II,28.243.7166

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Whan thei had etyn he had mych hast to a be thens ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7167

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
so my mastres desyryd and prayd hym that he wold come a-geyn or aght
long , PASTON,II,28.243.7168

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so with mych prayng he be-hest here if he so myth .
PASTON,II,28.243.7169

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Herry Collys stode there by-syde PASTON,II,28.243.7170

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seyd to my felachep , ' What shuld my master do here ? ' quod he .
PASTON,II,28.243.7171

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
' Lete yowre master send after his kynnysmen at Mautby ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7172

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for thei haue nowt that thei mown lese . ' PASTON,II,28.243.7173

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so thei redyn here wey . PASTON,II,28.243.7174

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And with-in a seveny+gt after my Master Berney sent Dauy to my mastres
PASTON,II,28.243.7175

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and prayd my mastres that she wold hold his master excusyd ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7176

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he had hurt his owyn hors that he rode vp-on ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7177

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he dede Dauy sadillyn an-oder hors , PASTON,II,28.243.7178

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he stode by PASTON,II,28.243.7179

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and mad water whill he sadyllyd hym ; PASTON,II,28.243.7180

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as Dauy shuld a kyrt the hors he slenkyd be-hynd
PASTON,II,28.243.7181

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and toke his master on the hepe suyche a stroke that neuer man may
trust hym after , PASTON,II,28.243.7182

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and brake his hepe . PASTON,II,28.243.7183

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he had sent Herry Collys to Norwhich for medycynys ,
PASTON,II,28.243.7184

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
so he must ryde hom the same ny+gt PASTON,II,28.243.7185

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for his master had no man at home . PASTON,II,28.243.7186

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
So my mastres was rygth sory PASTON,II,28.243.7187

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wend that it had be trowth , PASTON,II,28.243.7188

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I know wele that it was not so . PASTON,II,28.243.7189

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It happyd that I rod the next day to Norwhich , PASTON,II,28.243.7190

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I rood in to my mastres yowre moder , PASTON,II,28.243.7191

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and she dede aske me after my Master Berney . PASTON,II,28.243.7192

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I told here how he was hurt , PASTON,II,28.243.7193

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and she askyd the parson of Oxened if he were hurt
PASTON,II,28.243.7194

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seyd nay , PASTON,II,28.243.7195

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Dauy lay with hym the same ny+gt a-fore PASTON,II,28.243.7196

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and told hym that he was heyll and mery PASTON,II,28.243.7197

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and prayd hym that he wold be with hym the Sonday next after ;
PASTON,II,28.243.7198

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so Dauy lay the same ny+gt after that he had told my mastres the
tale with the parson of Oxened . PASTON,II,28.243.7199

<P_II,29>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I beseche yow of yowre gode masterchep that ye wold not do wreythe this
letter , PASTON,II,29.243.7200

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for and my mastres knew that I sent yow suyche a letter I were neuer
abill to loke vp-on here ner to a-byde in here heysyte .
PASTON,II,29.243.7201

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My mastres yowre moder hath sent yow ij letteris .
PASTON,II,29.243.7202

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
She hath in-dosyd hem to my Master Edmunde , PASTON,II,29.243.7203

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and she wuld wete if ye had hem or nowth . PASTON,II,29.243.7204

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trynyte` haue yow in kepyng . PASTON,II,29.243.7205

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wrytyn at Norwhich on Sent Clementys Evyn , jn hast .
PASTON,II,29.243.7206

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:27
LETTER:PASTON_243:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Yowre servaunt Jamys Gloys PASTON,II,29.243.7207

<Q_PAS_A_1449_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_244> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,30>

{ED:445._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1449,_10_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull $Mayster John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,30.244.7208

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Worthy and worshipful ser and my right good maister , I recomaund me to
yow , PASTON,II,30.244.7209

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and do yow wete +tat +tis nyght at soper I was with my maistresse your
wyff at my Maistresse Cleres , and blissed be God +tei fare weel and
hopyn +tat {ED:ye}_NP-SBJ shall send themme good tidyng of your matier
whanne ye <P_II,31> knowe +te certeynte` +terof , &c .
PASTON,II,31.244.7210

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my maistresse your modir come thedir , PASTON,II,31.244.7211

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and fareth well PASTON,II,31.244.7212

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sendeth yow Goddes blissyng and heres , PASTON,II,31.244.7213

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and she bad me write to yow +tat she hath verrey knowelage by a trewe
and trusty man , whos name she shall tell yow by mouthe atte your next
metyng , +tat +ter was purposed a gret meyne` of a wondir gaderyng of
shipmen a-bowte Couehithe for to haue come to Oxened and putte me owt
+tere in a wers wyse +tanne {in}_P ye were put owt at Gresham .
PASTON,II,31.244.7214

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +tis was purposed for to haue ben at Oxened and a ryfled and put in
+te preest +tere , PASTON,II,31.244.7215

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but +tis purpose helde not , PASTON,II,31.244.7216

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for +tei were countermandet , PASTON,II,31.244.7217

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
by what mene I can not knowe yeet . PASTON,II,31.244.7218

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And it is do hir to wete +tat +tei be purposed to be at $Oxnede
{TEXT:Oxede} a-bowt Midlent , PASTON,II,31.244.7219

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I am promytted +tat I shall haue ij days warnyng by a good freend .
PASTON,II,31.244.7220

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +terfor she preyeth yow +tat ye aspie besily if +te preest come
into +tis countre` or noght , PASTON,II,31.244.7221

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for if ought shall be doo I trowe +te frere wole be +tere $at $te
{TEXT:atte} doyng . PASTON,II,31.244.7222

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if ye can aspie +tat he come hider send my maistresse word as
hastily as ye may , and of your auyse and of all o+ter thyngges as ye
seme , &c . PASTON,II,31.244.7223

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And God haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,II,31.244.7224

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at ix on +te clokke at euyn +te Moneday nex to-fore Seint
Gregory Day in hast . PASTON,II,31.244.7225

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My brother Bekke and his felawship shall telle yow more by mowthe
+tanne I can telle yow now . PASTON,II,31.244.7226

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_244:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt J. Gresham PASTON,II,31.244.7227

<Q_PAS_A_1440S_T_ECLERE> <L_PASTON_245> <A_ELIZABETH_CLERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,31>

{ED:446._FROM_ELISABETH_CLERE_NOT_AFTER_1449,_29_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my cosyn John Paston be thys letter delyuered . </font>
PASTON,II,31.245.7228

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trusty and weel be-loved cosyn , I comaunde me to +gow , desyryng to
here of +gowre weelfare and good spede in +gowre matere , +te qwech I
prey God send +gow to his plesaunce and to +goure hertys ease .
PASTON,II,31.245.7229

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cosyn , I lete +gow wete +tat Scrope hath be in this cuntre` to se my
cosyn +goure sustyr , and he hath spoken wyth my cosyn +goure moder ,
and sche <P_II,32> desyreth of hym +tat he schuld schewe +gow +te
endentures mad be-twen +te knyght +tat hath his dowter and hym ,
whethir +tat Skrop if he were maried and fortuned to have children , if
tho children schuld enheryte his lond or his dowter +te wheche is
maried . PASTON,II,32.245.7230

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cosyn , for +tis cause take gode hede to his endentures ,
PASTON,II,32.245.7231

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is glad to schewe +gow hem or whom +ge wol a-sygne wyth +gow .
PASTON,II,32.245.7232

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he seith to me he is +te last in +te tayle of his lyflode , +te
qweche is cccl marke and better , as Watkyn Shipdam seith ,
PASTON,II,32.245.7233

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath take a-compt of his liflode dyuers tymes .
PASTON,II,32.245.7234

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Scrop seith to me if he be maried and have an eyre his dowter +tat
is maried schal have of his liflode l mark and no more ;
PASTON,II,32.245.7235

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +terfore , cosyn , me semeth he were good for my cosyn +gowre
sustyr , wyth {ED:owt} +tat +ge myght gete here a bettyr .
PASTON,II,32.245.7236

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if +ge can gete a better I wold a-vyse +gow to labour it in as
schort tyme as {in}_P +ge may goodly , PASTON,II,32.245.7237

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for sche was neuer in so gret sorow as {in}_P sche is now-a-dayes ;
PASTON,II,32.245.7238

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for sche may not speke wyth no man , ho so euer come ,
PASTON,II,32.245.7239

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne not may se ne speke wyth my man ne wyth seruauntes of hir moderys
but +tat sche bereth hire an hand o+terwyse +tan {to_bear_herself} she
menyth . PASTON,II,32.245.7240

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And sche hath son Esterne +te most part be betyn onys in +te weke or
twyes , and som tyme twyes on o day , and hir hed broken in to or thre
places . Whe {ED:r} for , cosyn , sche hath sent to me be Frere Newton
in gret counsell and preyeth me +tat I wold send to +gow a letter of
hir hevynes and prey yow to be hir good brothir , as hir trost is in
+gow . PASTON,II,32.245.7241

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And sche seith if +ge may se be his evydences +tat his childern and
hire may enheryten , and sche to have resonable joynture , sche hath
herd so mech of his birth and his condicions +tat , and +ge will , sche
will have hym whethir +tat hir moder wil or wil not , not-wythstandyng
it is tolde hir his persone is symple , PASTON,II,32.245.7242

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for sche seyth men shull haue +te more deynte` of hire if sche rewle
hire to hym as sche awte to do . PASTON,II,32.245.7243

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cosyn , it is told me +ter is a goodly man in yowre jnne of +te qweche
+te fadyr deyed late , PASTON,II,32.245.7244

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if +ge thynk +tat he were better for hir +tan Scroop it wold be
laboured , PASTON,II,32.245.7245

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yif Scroop a goodly answere +tat he be not put of tyl +ge be sure
of a bettyr ; PASTON,II,32.245.7246

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he seid whan he was wyth me but if he haue som counfortable answer
of +gow he wil no more laboure in this mater be-cause he myght not se
my cosyn +goure sustyr , PASTON,II,32.245.7247

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he seyth he myght a see hire and sche had be bettyr +tan she is ,
and +tat causeth hym to demyn +tat hir moder was not weel-willyng ;
PASTON,II,32.245.7248

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so haue I sent my cosyn +gowre moder word . Wherfore , cosyn ,
thynk on this mateer , PASTON,II,32.245.7249

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for sorow oftyn tyme causeth women to be-set hem o+ter-wyse +tan +tei
schuld do , PASTON,II,32.245.7250

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if sche where in +tat case I wot weel +ge wold be sory .
PASTON,II,32.245.7251

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cosyn , I prey +gow brenne +tis letter , +tat +goure men ne non o+ter
<P_II,33> man se it , PASTON,II,33.245.7252

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for and my cosyn +gowre moder knew +tat I had sent yow +tis letter sche
schuld neuer love me . PASTON,II,33.245.7253

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nomore I wrighte to +gow at +tis tyme , but Holy Gost have +gow in
kepyng . PASTON,II,33.245.7254

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_245:M4:1440S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn in hast on Seynt Peterys Day be candel lyght . Be +goure cosyn
Elisabeth Clere PASTON,II,33.245.7255

<Q_PAS_A_1449_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_246> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,33>

{ED:447._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1449,_16_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
After al due recomendacion , please it yow to wete +tat the Kyng is now
into +te marches of Wales , as it is seid , to th'entent +tat he may be
neer the cuntre` yf my lord of Bokyngham , whiche is commyssioner now
in Wales for dyuerses offences don +tere to +te Crowne , wolde sue to
haue his commyssion to be enlarged if he were repyned , &c .
PASTON,II,33.246.7256

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And men can not sey what tyme +te Kyng shall resorte to London ageyn ,
saue men deme +tat he wole be here $at $te {TEXT:atte} begynnyng of +te
parlement . PASTON,II,33.246.7257

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue your writtes of errour redy ensealed , PASTON,II,33.246.7258

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I can not knowe any errour +terin ; PASTON,II,33.246.7259

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but yet +tei shall serue for a fowle draught . PASTON,II,33.246.7260

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thomas Denys axed me why ye obserued not +te purpos that he meved yow
of for +te remevyng of +te streyngthe at Gresham , &c. ;
PASTON,II,33.246.7261

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
he wolde it shuld yet be doo . PASTON,II,33.246.7262

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It semyth +tat Fraunceys Costard is not yet weel at ease ,
PASTON,II,33.246.7263

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for his venire facias inter Willelmum Prentys et Franciscum Costard
querentes et Henricum Halman comyth in seruyd now at xv=a= Michelis in
+te werst wyse , as ye {TEXT:I} shall knowe whan ye loke on +te panell
whiche I send yow with +tis . PASTON,II,33.246.7264

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Me semyth it were weel ye shuld hye yow hedir to imprise +te shirref
+tat shall be +tis next yeer , PASTON,II,33.246.7265

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for as ye knowe weel meche of a mannes desire +tat is in trouble lieth
in +te shirrefes fauour , and namely in our shire ;
PASTON,II,33.246.7266

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I fere me +tat ell o+ter +tat be your aduersaryes wole be by-fore
yow , whiche God defende . PASTON,II,33.246.7267

<P_II,34>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I sent yow a litell bille whiche was wretyn at Badburgham .
PASTON,II,34.246.7268

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Whe+ter ye haue it or noght I wot not ; PASTON,II,34.246.7269

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ner the lese it is not of no gret substance . PASTON,II,34.246.7270

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
No more , but Almyghty God send yow als good speed as ye wolde desire ,
PASTON,II,34.246.7271

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
amen . PASTON,II,34.246.7272

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in hast at London +te xvj day of Octobre . PASTON,II,34.246.7273

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:28
LETTER:PASTON_246:M4:1449:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pouere seruaunt James Gresham PASTON,II,34.246.7274

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_247> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,34>

{ED:449._FROM_THOMAS_LORD_SCALES_1450,_22_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and right enterly welbeloued frend John
Paston , squier . </font> PASTON,II,34.247.7275

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Right $trusty {TEXT:tusty} and enterly welbeloued frend , I grete you
well PASTON,II,34.247.7276

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and wyll +ge wite +tat a man of Osberd Monford hath declared me how +te
said Osberd is infourmed +tat Danyell shuld be pourposed to enter in
+te place of Brayston . PASTON,II,34.247.7277

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And as fer as I can vnderstande Danyell is come in-to +tis cuntre` for
non other cause but for to haue such as the Kyng hath gifen hym in
Rysyng , which lieth not in me ner in non of the Kynges subgettes to go
ageyns hise graunte and plesaunce . PASTON,II,34.247.7278

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And in cas +te said Danyell wold enter upon +te said Osberd o+ter-wise
than lawe wold , seyng +te said Osberd is my tenaunt and homager it is
my part to holde with hym rather than with Danyell in hise right ,
which I wyll do to my pouer . PASTON,II,34.247.7279

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And as +get I can not apparceyue +tat Danyell wyll labore in any maters
in +tis cuntre` , PASTON,II,34.247.7280

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and if he wyll be of good gouernance I am wel paied .
PASTON,II,34.247.7281

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And in cas +tat he wold do wrong to +te lesse gentilman in the chirre ,
it shal not <P_II,35> lye in hise pouer , be the grace of God .
PASTON,II,35.247.7282

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
He letethe me wite +tat he wyll be wel gouerned in tyme commyng .
PASTON,II,35.247.7283

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and enterly wel-beloued frend , I pray God haue yow in
hise gouernance . PASTON,II,35.247.7284

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the xxij day of Aprill . PASTON,II,35.247.7285

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:51?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_247:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Scales PASTON,II,35.247.7286

<Q_PAS_A_1450_T_WLOMNOR> <L_PASTON_248> <A_WILLIAM_LOMNOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,35>

{ED:450._FROM_WILLIAM_LOMNOR_1450,_5_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the ryght worchipfull John Paston at Norwich . </font>
PASTON,II,35.248.7287

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchipfulle ser , I recomaunde me to yow , PASTON,II,35.248.7288

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am right sory of that I shalle sey , PASTON,II,35.248.7289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and haue soo wesshe this litel bille with sorwfulle terys that on-ethes
ye shulle reede it . PASTON,II,35.248.7290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As on Monday nexte after May Day there come tydynges to London that on
Thorsday before the Duke of Suffolk come vnto the costes of Kent full
nere Dower with his ij shepes and a litel spynner , the qweche spynner
he sente with certeyn letters be certeyn of his trustid men vnto Caleys
warde , to knowe howe he shuld be resceyuyd . PASTON,II,35.248.7291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And with hym mette a shippe callyd <font> Nicolas of the Towre </font>
, with othere shippis waytyng on hym , PASTON,II,35.248.7292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by hem that were yn the spyner the maister of the <font> Nicolas
</font> hadde knowlich of the Dukes comyng . PASTON,II,35.248.7293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whanne he espyed the Dukes shepis he sent forth his bote to wete
what they were , PASTON,II,35.248.7294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Duke hym-selfe spakke to hem PASTON,II,35.248.7295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyd he was be the Kynges comaundement sent to Caleys ward , &c .
PASTON,II,35.248.7296

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And they seyd he moste speke with here master ; PASTON,II,35.248.7297

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo he , with ij or iij of his men , wente forth wyth hem yn here
bote to the <font> Nicolas </font> . PASTON,II,35.248.7298

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whanne he come the mastere badde hym , ' Wolcom , traitour ' , as
men sey ; PASTON,II,35.248.7299

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and forthere , the maister desyryd to wete yf the shepmen woldde holde
with the Duke , PASTON,II,35.248.7300

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they sent word they wold not yn noo wyse . PASTON,II,35.248.7301

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And soo he was yn the <font> Nicolas </font> tyl Saturday next folwyng
. PASTON,II,35.248.7302

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Soom sey he wrotte moche thenke to be delyuerd to the Kenge ,
PASTON,II,35.248.7303

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but that is not verily knowe . PASTON,II,35.248.7304

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hadde hes confessour with hym , &c . PASTON,II,35.248.7305

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And <P_II,36> some sey he was arreyned yn the sheppe on here maner vpon
the appechementes , and fonde gylty , &c . PASTON,II,36.248.7306

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also he asked the name of the sheppe , PASTON,II,36.248.7307

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whanne he knew it he remembred Stacy , that seid if he myght
eschape the daunger of the Towre he shuld be saffe ;
PASTON,II,36.248.7308

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thanne his herte faylyd hym , PASTON,II,36.248.7309

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he thowght he was dysseyuyd . PASTON,II,36.248.7310

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yn the syght of all his men he was drawyn ought of the grete shippe
yn-to the bote , PASTON,II,36.248.7311

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there was an exe and a stoke , PASTON,II,36.248.7312

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and oon of the lewdeste of the shippe badde hym ley down hys hedde
PASTON,II,36.248.7313

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he shuld be faire ferd wyth and dye on a swerd ;
PASTON,II,36.248.7314

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke a rusty swerd PASTON,II,36.248.7315

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and smotte of his hedde withyn halfe a doseyn strokes ,
PASTON,II,36.248.7316

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke awey his gown of russette and his dobelette of veluet mayled
PASTON,II,36.248.7317

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and leyde his body on the sondes of Dover . PASTON,II,36.248.7318

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And some sey his hedde was sette oon a pole by it , and hes men sette
on the londe be grette circumstaunce and preyere .
PASTON,II,36.248.7319

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the shreue of Kent doth weche the body , PASTON,II,36.248.7320

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sent his vndere-shreve to the juges to wete what to doo , and also
to the Kenge . PASTON,II,36.248.7321

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whatte $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} doo forthere I wotte notte ,
PASTON,II,36.248.7322

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thus fer is yt : PASTON,II,36.248.7323

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yf the proces be erroneous , lete his concell reuerse it , &c .
PASTON,II,36.248.7324

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Asse for alle your othere materes , they slepe ; and the freere also ,
&c . PASTON,II,36.248.7325

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser Thomas Keriel is take prisoner , and alle the legge harneyse , and
abowte iij m=a= Englisshe men slayn . PASTON,II,36.248.7326

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mathew Gooth with xv=c= fledde PASTON,II,36.248.7327

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sauyd hym-selffe and hem ; PASTON,II,36.248.7328

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Peris Brusy was cheffe capteyn , PASTON,II,36.248.7329

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hadde x m=a= Frenshe men and more , &c . PASTON,II,36.248.7330

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I prey yow lete my mastras your modere knowe these tydyngis ,
PASTON,II,36.248.7331

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God haue yow all yn his kepyn . PASTON,II,36.248.7332

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I prey yow this bille may recomaunde me to my mastrases your moder and
wyfe , &c . PASTON,II,36.248.7333

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
James Gresham hath wretyn to John of Dam , PASTON,II,36.248.7334

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and recomandith hym , &c . PASTON,II,36.248.7335

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_248:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn yn gret haste at London the v day of May , &c . Be your wyfe W.
L. PASTON,II,36.248.7336

<Q_PAS_A_1450_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_249> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,37>

{ED:452._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1450,_13_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,37.249.7337

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I recomaund me vnto your good maistership . PASTON,II,37.249.7338

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for tidynges , Arblaster came home to my lord on Munday at
sopertyme ; PASTON,II,37.249.7339

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my Maister <P_II,38> Danyell is styward of the Duche` of Lancastre
by-yonde Trent , PASTON,II,38.249.7340

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Arblaster seith he hath made me his vndirstyward .
PASTON,II,38.249.7341

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for the chaumberleynship of Inglond , the Lord Beamond hath it ,
and the Lord Ryuers constable of Inglond . PASTON,II,38.249.7342

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for the Duche` on this side Trent , Ser Thomas Tudenham had a ioynte
patent with the Duke of Suffolk , which if it be resumed Ser Thomas
Stanley hath a bille redy endossed ther-of . PASTON,II,38.249.7343

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord wole not to Leicestre . PASTON,II,38.249.7344

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My Maister Danyell desireth yow thedir . PASTON,II,38.249.7345

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shal ride thiderward on Friday by tymes . PASTON,II,38.249.7346

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn in hast at Wynche the xiij day of May . PASTON,II,38.249.7347

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray yow to thynk vp-on my mater to my mastresse your wif for my
mastresse Anne , PASTON,II,38.249.7348

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for in good feith I haf fully conquerid my lady sith ye went , so that
I haf hir promisse to be my good lady and that she shal help me by the
feith of hir body . PASTON,II,38.249.7349

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_249:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your seruaunt Denyes PASTON,II,38.249.7350

<Q_PAS_A_1450_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_250> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,38>

{ED:453._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1450,_3_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right worshipfull $Maister John Paston at Wynchestre be
+tis delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,38.250.7351

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After al due recomendacion had , I recomaunde me to yow
PASTON,II,38.250.7352

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prey yow to wete +tat Heydon seweth in his accion a-geynst Osebern
x tales retournable xv=a= Johannis . PASTON,II,38.250.7353

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ideo mittetur vel loquatur vicecomiti Norffolcie , &c .
PASTON,II,38.250.7354

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I suppose +tat as for Costardes accions +tei wole haue nisi prius ,
&c . PASTON,II,38.250.7355

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng the matier of Oxened , the frere leveth his delagacie
PASTON,II,38.250.7356

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$and abideth up-on oure plee of profession by as meche as we sey +tat
long to-fore +te writte purchaced he was professed a frere and sey not
, and yet is professed , &c . PASTON,II,38.250.7357

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Sotyll and o+ter of your counseill thynk +te lawe is on oure syde .
PASTON,II,38.250.7358

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Brampton brought me a lettre and a clowt sowed clos with thyngges
<P_II,39> +terin , and a letter endorsed to yow from my maistresse your
modir , whiche I sende yow with this . PASTON,II,39.250.7359

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Lord Moleyns man brought ij writtes to the shirrefes depute` of
Norffolk , oon a-geynst yow , myn em , and James Gloys , quare clausum
suum apud Gresham fregerunt , &c. ; +te othir writte a-geynst yow and
J. Gloys quare vi et armis in homines et seruientes ipsius &c. apud
Gresham insultum fecerunt , &c . PASTON,II,39.250.7360

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And whanne the seid Lord Moleyns man delyuered +tese wrettys Lomnour
stode be-side PASTON,II,39.250.7361

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and aspied it , PASTON,II,39.250.7362

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +tanne +te seid man desired to haue a-geyn +te writtes
PASTON,II,39.250.7363

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and toke hem a-geyn ; PASTON,II,39.250.7364

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and whanne he had theym he seid thei shuld not come in +teir handes a
vij nyght after , PASTON,II,39.250.7365

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he kepeth theym stille . PASTON,II,39.250.7366

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Caly and Yates also haue promysed me +tat +ter shall no writte be
retourned a-geyn yow but +tat ye shall haue copies +ter-of at
reasonable tyme to take your auauntage as +te lawe wole , &c. , to
caste your esson or suyche o+ter , &c . PASTON,II,39.250.7367

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ser , I prey God yeld yow for your letter ye sent me by Lethom , whiche
I receyved yistereuyn right late , wherby I hope and conceyve +tat ye
be in good cas for your matier of Gresham , PASTON,II,39.250.7368

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for truly I was right weel comforted +terof . PASTON,II,39.250.7369

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng Skyn and his borwys , +te attachementes may not be wretyn
but by +te recordes of +te reconysance , PASTON,II,39.250.7370

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and alle +te recordes of +te Chauncerye be at Wynchestre .
PASTON,II,39.250.7371

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ideo , &c . PASTON,II,39.250.7372

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I prey God be your good speed in all your matiers ,
PASTON,II,39.250.7373

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
amen . PASTON,II,39.250.7374

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn in hast at London +te Friday next after Seint Petir Day .
PASTON,II,39.250.7375

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_250:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your seruaunt J. Gresham PASTON,II,39.250.7376

<Q_PAS_A_1450_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_251> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,39>

{ED:454._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1450,_8_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my maister Whyte , esquyer , with my $lord Cardynall , forto
take to John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,39.251.7377

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After al due recomendacion , &c. , I recomaund me to yow ,
PASTON,II,39.251.7378

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and do yow wete +tat +tis same Wednesseday I receyved your lettre
whiche was wretyn on Saterday last passed , wherby ye willed me to send
yow worde of your matiers , &c . PASTON,II,39.251.7379

<P_II,40>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng +te frere , he a-bydeth in lawe up-on oure plee of
profession , like as I sent yow word by wrytyng whiche I sent yow in a
box with o+ter stuf by a man of +te Archedeken of Rychemond .
PASTON,II,40.251.7380

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I endorsed it thus : ' To William Plumstede with my lord of Wynchestre
, or to John Paston ' . PASTON,II,40.251.7381

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
We shuld haue amendet oure plee of profession , PASTON,II,40.251.7382

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but +tanne your counseyll fereth he wolde take an issue +tat he is not
professed , PASTON,II,40.251.7383

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +tat shuld be tried by the certificat of +te Dean of Poulys , sede
vacante ; PASTON,II,40.251.7384

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +terfore we abide in lawe PASTON,II,40.251.7385

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and wole not amende our plee . PASTON,II,40.251.7386

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The day of +t'assises in Norffolk is die Veneris proximo post festum
Natiuitatis Beate Marie apud Norwicum , PASTON,II,40.251.7387

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Costardes nisi prius is take owt a-geynst +tat day and Prentis nisi
prius a-geynst Halman also . PASTON,II,40.251.7388

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng +te sute a-geyns Osebern and Foke , he hath geue day xv
Johannis with x tales , as I haue wretyn to yow to-fore +tis tyme ,
PASTON,II,40.251.7389

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I suppose +tat he wole haue a nisi prius of +te same $at $te
{TEXT:atte} seid assises . PASTON,II,40.251.7390

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng +te fyn in +te Kynges Benche for Osebern and Foke , +te
fyne were cessed +tis terme PASTON,II,40.251.7391

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I hadde no leyser to talke with Croxton +terof yet , &c .
PASTON,II,40.251.7392

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your bedfelawe seigh bothe my o+ter writyng and +tis ,
PASTON,II,40.251.7393

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he recomaundeth hym to yow PASTON,II,40.251.7394

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and shuld haue wretyn to yow if he had not be prevy to my writyng .
PASTON,II,40.251.7395

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ye ar meche hold to hym , PASTON,II,40.251.7396

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he is diligent for yow , &c . PASTON,II,40.251.7397

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng Drewe Barantyn , I myght not yet speke with hym , &c .
PASTON,II,40.251.7398

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Circumspecte agatis , PASTON,II,40.251.7399

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and be war of lordis promysses , PASTON,II,40.251.7400

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for it is tolde me in counseil +ter is a writte of forcyble entre` in
framyng a-geynst yow . PASTON,II,40.251.7401

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ideo , &c . PASTON,II,40.251.7402

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Almyghty God be your gyde . PASTON,II,40.251.7403

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn in hast with-inne an houre after +te resceyte of your lettre ,
at Westminstre the Wednesseday next after Seint Thomas Day .
PASTON,II,40.251.7404

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_251:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yours , James Gresham PASTON,II,40.251.7405

<Q_PAS_A_1450_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_252> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,40>

{ED:455._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1450,_19_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right especiall maister John Paston in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,40.252.7406

<P_II,41>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right worthy worshipfull ser and myn especiall maister , I recomaund me
to yow PASTON,II,41.252.7407

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prey yow wete +tat I was yis <em> ... </em> my lord Chauncelleres
hous PASTON,II,41.252.7408

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +tere I spak with White , PASTON,II,41.252.7409

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he tolde me +tat he hadde the letter +tat ye sewed for from <em>
... </em> directed to +te Lord Moleyns of +tat substance +tat ye hadde
sued to hym for an especiall assise and an oier and <em> determyner and
</em> +tat he shuld comaunde his men beyng at Gresham to departe +tens
, and +tat +te profitez +terof shuld be receyved by an <em> endifferent
man </em> saufly to be kepte til +te right were determyned be-twen yow
and my Lord M. , &c. ; whiche letter White sent forth $by a man of my
lord Chaunceller to +te Lord Moleyns . PASTON,II,41.252.7410

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he sent his answer in writyng of +tis substance : +tat it $shuld
not like my lord Chaunceller to graunte assise , &c. ,
PASTON,II,41.252.7411

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for als meche as +te Lord M. hadde sore be laboured in his cuntre` to
$pease and stille +te poeple there to restreyngne them from rysyng ,
and so he was dayly laboured +tere-abowt in +te Kyngges seruyce ; and
+tat considered he trustid veryly +tat +tere shuld non assise be
graunted to your entent . PASTON,II,41.252.7412

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he seid forther in his answer if he myght attende to be in Norffolk
and leve the necessary seruyce +tat he dede to +te Kyng now in
Wyltshire he wolde be but weel pleased +tat ye hadde your assise ,
PASTON,II,41.252.7413

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he knewe his title and his euydence so good for his part +tat he
durst weel putte it in my lord Chaunceller and in what iuge he wolde
calle to hym . PASTON,II,41.252.7414

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And where my lord Chaunceller desired hym to avoyde his men from
Gresham , he trustid that my lord wolde not desire that , by-cause he
hadde his possession and +tat it was his wyffes right ,
PASTON,II,41.252.7415

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so hym thought it a-geynst reason +tat he shuld a-voide utterly his
possession . PASTON,II,41.252.7416

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+Tis same Moneday goth my lord Chaunceller and my lord of Bukyngham
into Kent to sytte up-on an oier and determyner at Rorchestre ;
PASTON,II,41.252.7417

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Whyte tolde me +tat +tere is wretyn an generall oier and determyner
to be in Norffolk , and what therfor PASTON,II,41.252.7418

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and for +te Lord Moleyns writyng hym semyth it is not to your avayll to
sewe for an especiall assise ne for an oier and determyner .
PASTON,II,41.252.7419

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Whanne I come hiddirward I mette with my lord of Norffolk betwen
Berkewey and Baburgham homward , PASTON,II,41.252.7420

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and whethir he shall come agayn hiddir or noght I wot not ,
PASTON,II,41.252.7421

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I trowe rather yes +tanne nay ; PASTON,II,41.252.7422

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for it is seid that alle +te lordes be sent for to be here on Moneday
or Tuysday next comyng , for a counseyll . PASTON,II,41.252.7423

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Chief Justice is not here , ne noon o+ter iustice , except Danvers
is <P_II,42> now mad iuge of +te Commune Place and is forth in-to Kent
with +te lordes , &c . PASTON,II,42.252.7424

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Al +tis tofore was wretyn on +te Moneday next after Oure Lady Day .
PASTON,II,42.252.7425

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And +tis same Wednesseday was it told that Shirburgh is goon and we
haue not now a foote of lond in Normandie , PASTON,II,42.252.7426

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and men arn ferd +tat Calese wole be beseged hastily , &c .
PASTON,II,42.252.7427

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Pynchamour shall telle yow by mowthe more +tanne I haue leyser to write
now to yow . PASTON,II,42.252.7428

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I wrot to myn em +tat +tere were ix or x m=l= men up in Wiltshire ,
PASTON,II,42.252.7429

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I hadde it of +te report of Whittokkesmede ; PASTON,II,42.252.7430

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I trowe it is not so , PASTON,II,42.252.7431

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for here is now $littel speche +terof . PASTON,II,42.252.7432

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ner the lesse if I here more I shall send yow worde her-after by sum
loders +tat come to Seynt Bertilmews $fayre . PASTON,II,42.252.7433

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn in hast at London +te Wednesseday next after Oure Lady Day , &c
. PASTON,II,42.252.7434

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_252:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your own symple seruaunt James $Gresham PASTON,II,42.252.7435

<Q_PAS_C_1450?_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_253> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,42>

{ED:456._JOHN_DE_VERE,_TWELFTH_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PERHAPS_1450,_21_AUG UST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and intierly welbeloued John Paston , squyer
. </font> PASTON,II,42.253.7436

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and intierly welbeloued , I grete yow wele ,
PASTON,II,42.253.7437

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
and wole and pray you that ye dispose your-self to be with my lord of
Norffolk in al hast goodly , to that intent that where it was desired
by dyuers gentilmen of this shire that I shuld my-self a be with his
lordship at Framyngham , to excuse me to his lordship ;
PASTON,II,42.253.7438

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
for truly I haf suych writyng from the Kyng as it sitteth me not to
tary lenger from his Highnesse . PASTON,II,42.253.7439

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
I haf writyn to my said lord for myn excuse , which writyng I send to
yow by Thomas Denyes , to whome I pray you to gif credens .
PASTON,II,42.253.7440

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And the Trinite` kepe yow . PASTON,II,42.253.7441

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Bury Seynt Edmond the xxj day of August .
PASTON,II,42.253.7442

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
I pray you to speke with Ser Miles Stapilton and Brewes and to delyuer
to thaym my lettres , wherof I send you copies , and make Brewes to
send ouer a man to me with th'entent of my lord of Norffolk , and with
th'effect of your deligens , with a more credible message than Brewes
ded to my <P_II,43> wif ; PASTON,II,43.253.7443

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
for I had neuer a wers iurney for a iape in my lif , ne a lewder , as
ye shal wele conceyve . PASTON,II,43.253.7444

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_253:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,43.253.7445

<Q_PAS_C_1450?_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_254> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,43>

{ED:456A._THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_TO_SIR_MILES_STAPLETON_THOMAS_BREWS:C
OPIES_ENCLOSED_WITH_NO._456.}

{COM:TO_SIR_MILES_STAPLETON,_COPY_TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
To my ryght trusti and wyth all myn hert intyerly welbelovyd Ser Mylys
Stapelton , knyght PASTON,II,43.254.7446

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Ryght trusty and wyth all myn hert entierly welbelovyd , I grete yow
wele PASTON,II,43.254.7447

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
and wol that ye wete that a gentelman of your ally hath ben wyth me ,
at whos jnstans and steryng and by hese good avyce I wold ful fayne a
met wyth yow at Framyngham , but I may no lenger abyde here for the
strayte comaundment that I have to be wyth the Kyng . Wherfore I pray
yow to comown wyth Brews and Paston and to put in artycles be ther
avyses and be your wysdom the indisposicion of the people of this
counte` , and what were most necesary to be desierid of the Kyng and of
my lordis of the Councell for the restreynte of ther mourmur and the
peas , and to send it me be the brynger herof , to whom I pray yow gef
credens . PASTON,II,43.254.7448

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And the Holy Ternyte` kepe yow . PASTON,II,43.254.7449

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Wynche the xxj day of August . PASTON,II,43.254.7450

{COM:PART_OF_LETTER_456A:_TO_THOMAS_BREWS,_COPY_TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}


AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
To my ryght trusty and entierly welbelovyd Thomas Brewes , squyer
PASTON,II,43.254.7451

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Ryght trusty and intyerly welbelovid , I grete yow wele ,
PASTON,II,43.254.7452

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
and for as mouche as ye were wyth my wyf at Wynche in the name and
behalve of the substaunce of the gentelys of this shyer , and cause my
wyf to wryte to me for to turne agayn into Norffolk , be wheche wrytyng
and be your report it semyd to me that a gret asemble` had be purposid
wythin the counte` heer , I therfore sayd vn-to yow , wolyng and mevyng
yow , aftyre your trowth and as ye know , that ye do put in artycles
the indisposicion of the people and what your avyce is to be do for the
restreynyng of the same . PASTON,II,43.254.7453

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And this articles I pray yow set to your seal PASTON,II,43.254.7454

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
and cause other gentelmen wyth whom ye have <P_II,44> $comonyng set
ther seales , PASTON,II,44.254.7455

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
for this is necessary , and that I may schew it to the Kyng and to my
lordis of hese Councell , and that I fayle not here-of for your
honeste` and myn excuse . PASTON,II,44.254.7456

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And the Ternyte` kepe yow . PASTON,II,44.254.7457

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_254:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Wreten at Wynche the xxj day of August . PASTON,II,44.254.7458

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_255> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,44>

{ED:457._SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF,_TO_PASTON_OTHERS_1450,_14_SEPTEMBER}_CO DE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght trusty cosyn and frendys John a Berney , John Paston
, and Ser Thomas Howys , parson of Castelcombe . </font>
PASTON,II,44.255.7459

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Ryght trusty and welbelovyd cosyn and frendys , I grete yow well .
PASTON,II,44.255.7460

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And forasmoch as I vndrestand that the oyer and terminer shall be
halden at Norwych vppon Thursday next commyng , and seth it ys soo that
y have materys attamed there ayenst Appul+gerd and othyrs that have put
me to grete wrong and dammage , as ye know best , of whych materys I
desyre that it myght take to a gode eende to my worshyp and proffyt ,
wherfor I seende vnto yow my ryght trusty seruaunt John Bokkyng , to
wayt vppon my lerned councell and othyr trusty frendys of myne , there
to help , solicit , and labour my chargeable materys as ye shall best
avise hym ; PASTON,II,44.255.7461

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and prayng yow to spare for no resonable cost to ley owt and do at thys
tyme there as it shall be thought expedient so as my mater may take a
gode ende to my worshyp . And in especiall ye labour effectuelly the
bill of meyntenaunce ayenst Appul+gerd , for as I vndrestand he was the
grettest cause that th'enquest past ayenst me so vntruely , where as I
gafe hym no cause ; gevyng credence to the seid Bokkyng in that at may
concern thys mater or onye othyr to my worshyp and proffyt .
PASTON,II,44.255.7462

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
I ponder thys mater full gretly because it sownyth more to my worshyp
and hertys ease then onlye my proffyt . PASTON,II,44.255.7463

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Our Lord have yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,II,44.255.7464

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Wrytt at London the xiiij day of September the xxjx yeere of Kyng Herry
vj=te= . PASTON,II,44.255.7465

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:72?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_255:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
J. Fastolf PASTON,II,44.255.7466

<Q_PAS_A_1450_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_256> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,45>

{ED:459._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1450,_4_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston in hast . </font> PASTON,II,45.256.7467

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull and my right good maister , I recomaund me to you .
PASTON,II,45.256.7468

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And like you wete that it is now <em> thus +tat </em> I haf for Danyels
sake put my-self <P_II,46> withynne the maner of Rydon ;
PASTON,II,46.256.7469

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and her is with me a kynnesman $of my mastres your wifes , John
Bendyssh . PASTON,II,46.256.7470

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as yistirday cam John Wodehous with a xij hors to $Geyton ;
PASTON,II,46.256.7471

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on the othre side cometh Fitzwilliam with xx hors ;
PASTON,II,46.256.7472

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on the thrid parte oon Hoberd of Midelton hath redy a xx felaws ;
PASTON,II,46.256.7473

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and on the fourth parte stant the toun of Lynne redy with Herry
Wodehous ; PASTON,II,46.256.7474

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thei all be gon thedir this nyght . PASTON,II,46.256.7475

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This day folwyng cometh to thaym Herry Tudenham , William Narburgh ,
Thomas Trusbut , Thomas Kervile , and Shuldham seruauntz , Salesbury
and William Ewayn . PASTON,II,46.256.7476

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is so that of my lord gete I no socour , PASTON,II,46.256.7477

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lever I had to dy than gif vp the place sith I am ther-yn .
PASTON,II,46.256.7478

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I wene if thei gete the place vpon me ther helpith my lif no
pardone . Wherfore I lowly beseche yow , Maister Paston , aduertise in
your wisdam that this was the first purpose of Tudenham and Heydon
whils thei regned , to gete this place , and to that intent thei
brought hider the Lord Roos , which now is ful simpely thought on with
my maister that I serue . PASTON,II,46.256.7479

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ye wete wele that I haf most encountred the entent of Tudenham and
Heydon of ony pouer man on lyve , PASTON,II,46.256.7480

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if I be lost or put to an vngoodly rebuke heryn my seruice is the
lesse of valu to you that be gentils of the shire . Wherfore I requyre
your maistership to come hider in your persone with suych as ye seme
not to that intent to take party in the mater but to that intent to
help to set peas in the shire and to stire my lord for his honour .
PASTON,II,46.256.7481

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For yisterday my lord sent to Lynne PASTON,II,46.256.7482

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made a cry to be made that he wold not be named in the writ of the
statute of Northampton , PASTON,II,46.256.7483

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that cry hath caused the comon peple of the toun of Lynne to stere
the more . PASTON,II,46.256.7484

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neuerthelesse all the substaunce of the toun is in peas , and peasid by
the wisdam of the meir theer , but not for than sum of thaym come with
Herry Wodehous , so that I deme he hath a vj=xx= persones in all on all
sides . PASTON,II,46.256.7485

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseche you to send me hider sum socour beside forth , with John
Osbern and John Lister with thaym , PASTON,II,46.256.7486

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and come ye aftir a-parte by your good wisdam , snokyng their demenyng
, PASTON,II,46.256.7487

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and send me your aduyse . PASTON,II,46.256.7488

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn the nyght of the Sunday a-forn Seynt $Feithes $day
{TEXT:Feithesday} . PASTON,II,46.256.7489

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your servaunt Thomas Denyers PASTON,II,46.256.7490

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This day I deme thei come beforn vs . PASTON,II,46.256.7491

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_256:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If ye help not now Tudenham and Heydon shal achieve in their desese the
conquest that thei coude neuer achieve in their prosperite` .
PASTON,II,46.256.7492

<Q_PAS_A_1450_T_WWAYTE> <L_PASTON_257> <A_WILLIAM_WAYTE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,47>

{ED:460._FROM_WILLIAM_WAYTE_1450,_6_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To myn Mayster John Paston in ryght gret hast . </font>
PASTON,II,47.257.7493

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , and it plese , I was in my lord of Yorkes howse
PASTON,II,47.257.7494

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I herde meche thynge more +tanne my mayster wrytyth vn-to yow of .
PASTON,II,47.257.7495

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I herde meche thynge in Fletestrede . PASTON,II,47.257.7496

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , syr , my lord was with the Kynge PASTON,II,47.257.7497

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he vesaged so the mater +ter +tat all +te Kynges howsold was and is
aferd ryght sore ; PASTON,II,47.257.7498

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my seyd lord hayth putte a bille to +te Kynge and desyryd meche
thynge , qwych is meche after +te Comouns desyre ,
PASTON,II,47.257.7499

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all is vp-on justice and to putte all thoo +tat ben indyted vndere
arest with-owte suerte` or maynpryce , and to be tryed be lawe as lawe
wyll ; in so meche +tat on Monday Syr W. Oldhall was with the Kynge
atte Westmynster more +tanne to houres and hadde of +te Kynge good
chere . PASTON,II,47.257.7500

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +te Kynge desyryd of Syr W. Oldhall +tat he shuld speke to hese
cosyn York +tat he wold be good lord to John Penycook , and +tat my
lord of York shuld wryte vn-to hese tenaunce that they wold suffyre
Peny Cookes officers go and gadere vp hys rentes fermes with-jnne +te
seyd Dukes lordsheps . PASTON,II,47.257.7501

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Syr William Oldhall answherd ayen to +te Kynge
PASTON,II,47.257.7502

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and preyed hym to hold my lord escusyd , PASTON,II,47.257.7503

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thow my lord wrotte vnder hese seall of hys armes hese tenauntez
wyll not obeyet ; jn someche whanne Syr Thomas Hoo mette with my lord
of +Gork be-yon Sent Albons +te western men felle vp-on hym and wold a
slayne hym hadde {ED:not} Syr William Oldhall a be ,
PASTON,II,47.257.7504

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +terfor wold +te westerne men a falle vp-on +te seyd Syr William
and a kyllyd hym ; PASTON,II,47.257.7505

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he told the Kynge . PASTON,II,47.257.7506

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , Borle Yonge and Josse laboure sore for Heydon and Tudenham to Syr
William Oldhall , PASTON,II,47.257.7507

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and profyre more +tanne to thowsand pownde for to have hese good
lordshep ; PASTON,II,47.257.7508

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +terfor it is noon o+ter remedye but late <P_II,48> Swhafham men be
warned to mete with my seyd lord on Fryday nest comyng atte Pykenham on
horssebak in +te most goodly wyse , and putte sum bylle vn-to my lord
of Syr Thomas Tudenham , Heydon , and Prentys , and crye owte on hem ,
and +tat all the women of +te same towne be +ter also and crye owte on
hem also and calle hem extorcionners , and pray my lord +tat he wyll do
$sharp {TEXT:shap} execucyon vp-on hem . PASTON,II,48.257.7509

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my mayster counceyll yow that +ge shuld meve +te meyer and all +te
aldermen with all here comoners to ryde ayens my lord , and +tat +ter
ben madde byllez and putte them vp to my lord , PASTON,II,48.257.7510

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and late all +te towne cry owte on Heydon , Todenham , Wyndham , and
Prentys , and of all here fals mayntenours , PASTON,II,48.257.7511

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and telle my lord how meche hurte +tei have don to +te cetye ,
PASTON,II,48.257.7512

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and late yt be don in the most lamentabyl wyse ; PASTON,II,48.257.7513

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , syr , but yf my lord here sum fowle tales of hem and sum hyddows
noys and crye , be my feyth +tei arne ellys lyke to come to grace .
PASTON,II,48.257.7514

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +terfor , syr , remember yow of all these maters .
PASTON,II,48.257.7515

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , also I spake with William Norwych PASTON,II,48.257.7516

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked hym after +te Lord Moleyns , how he stod to my lord ward ;
PASTON,II,48.257.7517

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he told me he was sor owte of grace and +tat my lord of York lovyth
hym nought . PASTON,II,48.257.7518

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
William Norwych tolde me +tat he durste vndertake for to brynge yow
vn-to my lord and make hym your ryght good lord ; PASTON,II,48.257.7519

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , syr , my mayster counceyllyd yow +tat +ge shuld not spare but
gete yow hese goodlordshep . PASTON,II,48.257.7520

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , be ware of Heydon , PASTON,II,48.257.7521

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he wold destroyed {COM:for_destroy?} yow , be my feyth .
PASTON,II,48.257.7522

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te Lorde Scales and Syr William Oldhall arne made frendys .
PASTON,II,48.257.7523

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , laboure +ge for be knyth of the shire , PASTON,II,48.257.7524

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and speke to my Mayster Stapulton also +tat he be yt .
PASTON,II,48.257.7525

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , all Swafham , and they be warned , wyll +geve yow here voyses .
PASTON,II,48.257.7526

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , speke with Thomas Denys PASTON,II,48.257.7527

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and take hese good avys +terin . PASTON,II,48.257.7528

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , speke to Denys +tat he avoyde hys garyson atte Rydon ,
PASTON,II,48.257.7529

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for +ter is non o+ter remedy but deth for Danyell and for all +too +tat
arne indyted . PASTON,II,48.257.7530

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , laboure +ge to +te mayere +tat John Dam or William Jenney be
burgeys for +te cetye of Norwych . PASTON,II,48.257.7531

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Telle them +tat he may be yt as well as Yonge is of Brystow or +te
recordour is of London and as +te recordoure of Coventre` is for +te
cite` of Coventre` , and it so in many places in Inglond .
PASTON,II,48.257.7532

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also , syr , thynk on Yernemouth +tat +ge ordeyne +tat John Jenney or
Lumnour or sum good man be burgeys for Yernemouth .
PASTON,II,48.257.7533

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ordeyne +ge +tat Jenneys mown ben in the parlement ,
PASTON,II,48.257.7534

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they kun seye well . PASTON,II,48.257.7535

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , it were wysdam +tat my lord of Oxenford wayte on my lord of Yorke
. PASTON,II,48.257.7536

<P_II,49>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In good feyth , good syr , thynke on all these maters .
PASTON,II,49.257.7537

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Meche more I hadde to wryte on-to yow yf I kowde a remembryd me ,
PASTON,II,49.257.7538

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I hadde no leysere , be my feyth . PASTON,II,49.257.7539

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hold me escused of my lewde rude wrytyng . PASTON,II,49.257.7540

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Late John Dam be ware for +te Lorde Moleyns , PASTON,II,49.257.7541

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , syr , late +te cetye be ware , PASTON,II,49.257.7542

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he wyll do hem a velony but yf he may have hese men .
PASTON,II,49.257.7543

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And syr , yf he come to Norwych loke +ter be redy to wayte vp-on +te
mayere a good felawship , PASTON,II,49.257.7544

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is seyd here +tat they arne but bestys . PASTON,II,49.257.7545

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , my mayster bad me wryte vn-to yow +tat +ge shuld stere +te mayere
and alle +te aldermen to crye on my lord +tat they mown have justyce of
these men +tat be indyted , and +tat my lorde wyll speke vn-to +te
Kynge +terof . PASTON,II,49.257.7546

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , syr , in diuers partes in +te towne +ter my lorde comyth +ter
wolde be ordeyned many porcions of comeners to crye vp-on my lord for
justice of these men +tat arne indyted , PASTON,II,49.257.7547

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and telle here names , in speciall Todenham , Heydon , Wyndam , Prentys
. PASTON,II,49.257.7548

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , I sende yow a copy of the bylle +tat my lord of Yorke putte vn-to
+te Kynge , PASTON,II,49.257.7549

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , syr , late copyes go abowte the cetye j-now , for +te love of God
, $wyche have yow in hese kepyng . PASTON,II,49.257.7550

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_257:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn on Seynt Feyth Daye in hast . Be your seruaunt W. Wayte
PASTON,II,49.257.7551

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_RICHARDY> <L_PASTON_258> <A_RICHARD_OF_YORK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1411> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VI>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,49>

{ED:460A._DUKE_OF_YORK_TO_KING_HENRY_VI,_COPY_ENCLOSED_WITH_NO.
_460._1450}

{COM:TO_HENRY_VI,_COPY_TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_258:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Please it youre Hyghnes tendirly to considere the grett grutchyng and
romore that is vniuersaly in this youre reame of +tat justice is nouth
dewly ministrid to such as trespas and offende a-yens youre lawes , and
in special of them that ben endited of treson and o+ter beyng openly
noysed of the same . Wherfore for gret inconueniens +tat haue fallen ,
and gretter is lyke to fallen here-aftere in youre seid reame , which
God defende , but if be youre Hyghnesse prouysion couenable be mad for
dew reformacion and punyshment in this behalf ; wherfore I , youre
humble sugett and lyge man , Richard Duke of York , willyng as
effectually as I kan and desiryng <P_II,50> suerte` and prosperite` of
youre most roiall person and welfare of this youre noble reame ,
councel and aduertyse youre Excellens , for the conuersacion of good
tranquillite` and pesable rewle among all trew sogettes , for to ordeyn
and prouyde +tat dew justice be had a-yenst all such that ben so
endited or openly so noysed ; wher-jnne I offre and wol put me in
deuoure for to excecute youre comandementes in thes premises of such
offenders and redresse of the seid mysrewlers to my myth and powere .
PASTON,II,50.258.7552

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:39
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_258:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And for the hasty execucion here-of lyke it youre Hyghnes to dresse
youre letteres of prevy seall and writtes to youre officers and
ministres to do take and areste all soch persons so noysed or endited ,
of what astate , degre` , or condicion so euer thei be , and them to
comytte to youre Toure of London or to othere youre presons , there to
abyde with-outen bayle or maymprice on-to the tyme +tat thei be vtterly
tryed and declared after the cours of youre lawe .
PASTON,II,50.258.7553

<Q_PAS_A_1450_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_259> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,50>

{ED:461._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1450,_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my worshipfull Maister Paston at Norwich in hast be +tis
delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,50.259.7554

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please it yow to wete +tat I come to London +te Wednesseday at euyn
late next after my departyng from yow , PASTON,II,50.259.7555

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it was tolde me +tat my Maister Calthorp hadde writyng fro my lord
of York to awayte on hym at his comyng in-to Norffolk to be oon of his
men , and +tat no gentilman of Norffolk had writyng to awayte on hym
but he ; PASTON,II,50.259.7556

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and sum folke wene +tat it is to +t'entent +tat he shuld be outhir
shiref or knyght of +te shire , to +te fortheryng of othir folkes , &c
. PASTON,II,50.259.7557

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Kyng is remevid from Westminster , PASTON,II,50.259.7558

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
summe men sey to Fysshwik PASTON,II,50.259.7559

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and summe sey to Bristowe . PASTON,II,50.259.7560

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And it is seid +tat he hath do wretyn to alle his men +tat be in +te
chekroll to awayte on hym atte parlement in +teir best aray ;
PASTON,II,50.259.7561

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
why noman can telle . PASTON,II,50.259.7562

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Heydon was with my Maister Yeluerton PASTON,II,50.259.7563

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and desired hym to see +te recordes of his endytementz
PASTON,II,50.259.7564

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and axed of hym if he were indited of felonye ; PASTON,II,50.259.7565

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and my Maister Yeluerton told hym it was so . PASTON,II,50.259.7566

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And +terto H. seide , ' Ser , ye <P_II,51> wole recorde +tat I was
neuer thef ' , PASTON,II,51.259.7567

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid he trowed right weel that he cowde telle why he took
Plumpstedes goodes , and othir wordes whiche were long to write .
PASTON,II,51.259.7568

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And my Maister Y. seid to hym he cowde not knowe +te laborer of
+t'endytement , PASTON,II,51.259.7569

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid a-geyn he knewe weel +te laborere +terof ;
PASTON,II,51.259.7570

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and my Maister Y. conceyte is H. ment yow . Wherfor he aduyseth yow
+tat in ony wyse ye make Plumpsted to take apell accordyng ,
PASTON,II,51.259.7571

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for if he so do +tanne is H. barred of his conspirace` and also of his
damages , though +tat he be nounsewed +terin or though it be afterward
discontynued , &c. ; PASTON,II,51.259.7572

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ellis ar ye in ioparde` of a conspirace` , PASTON,II,51.259.7573

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for H. hopeth to haue +te world better to his entent +tanne it is nowe
, PASTON,II,51.259.7574

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for it is tolde me +tat rather +tanne he shuld fayle of a shiref +tis
yeer comyng for his entent he wole spend m=l= li. PASTON,II,51.259.7575

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+Tis communicacion be-twene +tem was on Moneday last passed ,
PASTON,II,51.259.7576

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and on Tewisday last passed H. mette with Maister Markham ,
PASTON,II,51.259.7577

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he tolde H. his part how that he levid vngoodly in puttyng awey of
his wyff and kept ano+ter , &c. ; PASTON,II,51.259.7578

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +terwith he turned pale colour PASTON,II,51.259.7579

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seid he lyved not but as God was pleased with , ne dede no wrong to
no person . PASTON,II,51.259.7580

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And +terupon Maister M. reherced how he demened hym a-geynst men of
court , PASTON,II,51.259.7581

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and named yow and Genneye ; PASTON,II,51.259.7582

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and H. seid as touchyng +te peple +tat rifled yow and +te doyng +terof
he was not prevy +terto , PASTON,II,51.259.7583

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he was +tat tyme here at London ; PASTON,II,51.259.7584

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as touchyng +te Lord Moleyns title H. enforced gretly
PASTON,II,51.259.7585

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seid his title was better +tanne yours . PASTON,II,51.259.7586

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yisterday was my Maister Yeluerton at dyner with my Maister Fastolf ,
PASTON,II,51.259.7587

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +tere among o+ter thei were auysed that my Maister F. shall write
to my lord of Norffolk +tat he certifie +te Kyng and his Counceill how
+te cuntre` of Norffolk and Suffolk stonde right wildely withowt a mene
may be that iustice be hadde , whiche wole not be but if a man of gret
byrthe and lyflod there be shiref +tes yere comyng to lede +te peple in
most peas ; PASTON,II,51.259.7588

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +terto thei named Maister Stapilton , if it wole happe , &c .
PASTON,II,51.259.7589

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also +tat my lord Norffolk shall certifie the Kyng and his Counseill
+tat but if +te day of +te oyer and termyner stonde it wole be full
harde by-cause +te peple is so wylde . PASTON,II,51.259.7590

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also +tat alle knyghtes and escuyers of +te same cuntre` shuld certifie
+te same , PASTON,II,51.259.7591

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for summe of H. part haue boosted +tat all <em> ... </em> oo at Norwich
shuld not be worth an haughe . PASTON,II,51.259.7592

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ideo , &c . PASTON,II,51.259.7593

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Prentise is now in +te Mydle Inne PASTON,II,51.259.7594

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Dynne <em> ... </em> PASTON,II,51.259.7595

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Almyghty God haue yow in his kepyng . PASTON,II,51.259.7596

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn the Thursday next <em> after my </em> <em> departyng ... </em> .
PASTON,II,51.259.7597

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_259:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your J. Gresham PASTON,II,51.259.7598

<Q_PAS_A_1450_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_260> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,52>

{ED:462._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1450,_OCTOBER-NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my worshipfull maister John Paston , escuyr , dwellyng at
Norwich , in hast . </font> PASTON,II,52.260.7599

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After +tat myn letter was wretyn I spak with Maister Yeluerton
PASTON,II,52.260.7600

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and tolde hym +te substance of my letter to yow ; PASTON,II,52.260.7601

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he bad me write to yow +tat as touchyng the matier of my lord of
Oxeford he shall lette +te awardyng and +t'entre` +terof als long as he
may . PASTON,II,52.260.7602

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he demyth veryly +tat H. Wodehous coude neuer haue take up-on his
knowelage to haue called up-on +te matier with-owt counseil and
enformacion of Heydon , PASTON,II,52.260.7603

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it were weel do +tat my lord of Oxeford knewe it .
PASTON,II,52.260.7604

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Maister Yeluerton told me +tat +te Lord Moleyns was enfourmed
+tat he and alle his men wern endited of felonye in Norffolk , whiche
caused hym and his to be right wroth toward my maister and yow .
PASTON,II,52.260.7605

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Maister Yeluerton hath tolde a man of +te Kyngges Benche called
Styrop , whiche is a man of the Lord Moleyns , +te trouth +tat nothir
he ner noon of his is endited , PASTON,II,52.260.7606

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Stirop is now in-to Wiltshire PASTON,II,52.260.7607

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and shall telle it to +te Lord M. , PASTON,II,52.260.7608

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +tat shall squage weel his hete of wrethe , &c .
PASTON,II,52.260.7609

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_260:M4:1450:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng Germyn , if he be shiref William Genney wole vndirtake for
hym +tat he shall and wole be ruled weel j-now , &c .
PASTON,II,52.260.7610

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_WYELVERTON> <L_PASTON_261> <A_WILLIAM_YELVERTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1400?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,52>

{ED:463._PROBABLY_FROM_WILLIAM_YELVERTON_1450,_ABOUT_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my cosyn John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,52.261.7611

<P_II,53>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
I recomaunde me vn-to yow the best wyse I kan . PASTON,II,53.261.7612

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Whanne I cam to Ware , +ter herd I furst tydynges +tat the Lord Moleyns
shuld come in-to Norffolk in hast with grette pupyll , and as on of hys
men seyd +ter , with the vij=xx= . PASTON,II,53.261.7613

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Also a man of +te Lady Morle`s cam +tedyre owte of Wyltshire +ter
+tanne , PASTON,II,53.261.7614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and seyd +tat the seyd lord was comyng +tedyrward with grette pupyll .
PASTON,II,53.261.7615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And atte London a man of hys hadde large langage PASTON,II,53.261.7616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and seyd +tat my lord shuld come to Norffolk and do meche thyng agayns
hem that hadde do indite hym and hys men , and also for the presonyng
of hys men atte Norwych . PASTON,II,53.261.7617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
This is supposyd verely to be Heydons werke +tat wyll sette hym verely
to do +te vtterest ayens yow and John Dam in +te werst wyse +tat {in}_P
he can . PASTON,II,53.261.7618

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
+Ge have bothe lordshep and frendshep in your countre` , and also good
j-now to reciste hym yf he wyll do yow wronge , PASTON,II,53.261.7619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and paraventure +tat shuld brynge thys mater nyere an ende +tanne it is
now . PASTON,II,53.261.7620

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Wheddere it be to done or not , I remitte +tat to youre counceyll .
PASTON,II,53.261.7621

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Also my lord shall be atte Walsyngham on Sonday nest comyng ,
PASTON,II,53.261.7622

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
$and from thens he shall go to Norwych . PASTON,II,53.261.7623

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
For any thynge in +te werd meve my lord of Oxenford and my cosyn Syr
Miles Stapulton +tat they awayte vp-on my seyd lord in +te most
wurchepfull wyse +tat {in}_P they kun , and do hym as good attendaunce
and plesaunce as they mown , PASTON,II,53.261.7624

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and ye do +te same also . PASTON,II,53.261.7625

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And +tat the cyte` of Norwych mete with hym in +te best wyse also , and
also +tat they and +ge also cherse and wurchep well Syr William
Oldhalle . PASTON,II,53.261.7626

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And +ter be good informacion made ayens T. T. and H. ,
PASTON,II,53.261.7627

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
for they wyll spend m=l=m=l= li. for to come jn +ter ,
PASTON,II,53.261.7628

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and +tat were petye . PASTON,II,53.261.7629

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Spende sum-what of youre good now , PASTON,II,53.261.7630

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and gette yow lordshep and frendshep +ter , quia ibi pendet tota lex et
prophete . PASTON,II,53.261.7631

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And send sum man to aspye of +te governaunce and of the comyng of the
Lord Moleyns , PASTON,II,53.261.7632

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and take hed to youre-self , PASTON,II,53.261.7633

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and byd John Dam be ware of hym-self . PASTON,II,53.261.7634

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Sum men suppose +tat my lord of York cherse not meche the seyd Lord
Moleyns . PASTON,II,53.261.7635

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And send sum men hedyr often to London +tat mown heryn here and brynge
yow tydynges . PASTON,II,53.261.7636

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And I pray God spede yow in all youre werkes . PASTON,II,53.261.7637

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_261:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Youre cosyn nameles atte +tis tyme PASTON,II,53.261.7638

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_JMOWBRSR> <L_PASTON_262> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,54>

{ED:464._FROM_THE_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_PROBABLY_1450,_16_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure trusti and welbelouid John Paston , squier . </font>
PASTON,II,54.262.7639

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
The Duc of Norffolk PASTON,II,54.262.7640

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Right trusti and welbelouid , we grete you well . PASTON,II,54.262.7641

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And forasmoche as oure vnkill of York and we haue fully appoynted and
agreed of such ij persones for to be knightes of shire of Norffolk as
oure said vnkill and we thinke conuenient and necessarie for the
welfare of the said shire , we therfor pray you , in oure said vnkill
name and oures bothe , as ye list to stonde in the fauour of oure good
lordshjp , that ye make no laboure contrarie to oure desire .
PASTON,II,54.262.7642

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And God haue you in his keping . PASTON,II,54.262.7643

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_262:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Wreten at Bury Seynt Edmondis the xvj day of Octobre .
PASTON,II,54.262.7644

<Q_PAS_C_1450?_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_263> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,54>

{ED:465._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_1450,_18_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To owre welbeloued John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,54.263.7645

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Right welbeloued , I grete yow well . PASTON,II,54.263.7646

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And as towchyng for tydynges I can none savyng that my lord of Norffolk
met with my lord of York at Bury on Thursday , and there were to-gedre
til Friday ix of the clokke , and than they departed .
PASTON,II,54.263.7647

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
And there a gentilman of my lord of York toke vn-to a yeman of myn ,
John Deye , a tokene and a sedell of my lordes entent whom he wold haue
knyghttes of the shyre , PASTON,II,54.263.7648

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
and I sende yow a sedell closed of <P_II,55> their names in this same
letter ; wherfore me thynkith wel do to parforme my lordes entent , &c
. PASTON,II,55.263.7649

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn the xviij=o= daij of October at Wynche . PASTON,II,55.263.7650

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29?
LETTER:PASTON_263:M4:1450?:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,55.263.7651

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_JMOWBRSR> <L_PASTON_264> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,55>

{ED:466._FROM_THE_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_PROBABLY_1450,_22_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure right trusty and welbeloued seruaunt John Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,55.264.7652

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
The Duc of Norffolk PASTON,II,55.264.7653

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Right trusti and right welbelouid , we grete ye hertily well , prayng
you specially that ye will make you redy to awayte vpon vs at
Yippiswich toward the parlement the viij day of Nouembre in youre best
aray , with as many clenly people as ye may gete for oure worship at
this tyme ; PASTON,II,55.264.7654

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
for we will be there like oure estate in oure best wise without any
delay . PASTON,II,55.264.7655

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Yeven vnder oure signet in oure Castell of Framlyngham the xxij day of
Octobre . PASTON,II,55.264.7656

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_SR:MALE:_:1415:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_264:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Norffolk PASTON,II,55.264.7657

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_265> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,56>

{ED:468._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1450,_23_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_265:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
<font> To owr welbeloued John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,56.265.7658

<P_II,57>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_265:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Th'Erl of Oxenford PASTON,II,57.265.7659

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_265:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Right tusty and welbeloved , we gret $yow well . PASTON,II,57.265.7660

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_265:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And for as meche as the Qwene and my lord of York haue wretyn to vs for
a matier that is dependyng betwix the toun of Salle and on Sechforth of
the same toun , we pray yow that at suche tyme as ye purpose yow to be
with vs now this Cristemesse at Wynche that ye lete the sayd Sechforth
haue wetyng ther-of , and that he may be with vs that same tyme for
diuerse matiers wich that we haue to speke with hym ; and that ye fayle
not , as we trust yow . PASTON,II,57.265.7661

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:29
LETTER:PASTON_265:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn in owre manor of Wynche the xxiij=ti= daij of December .
PASTON,II,57.265.7662

<Q_PAS_A_1451_T_WWAYTE> <L_PASTON_266> <A_WILLIAM_WAYTE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,60>

{ED:471._FROM_WILLIAM_WAYTE_1451,_3_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my ryght reuerent and ryght wurchepfull mayster , mi Mayster
Paston , in hast . </font> PASTON,II,60.266.7663

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght reuerent and ryght wurchepfull syr , I recomaunde me vn-to youre
good maystershep . PASTON,II,60.266.7664

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Late yow wete that Blake , +te baly of Swafham , cam hom from London on
+te Saterday after +tat my mayster departed from yow atte my lord of
Oxenford . PASTON,II,60.266.7665

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he told my mayster +tat he cam to London on Seint John Day atte
nyte , PASTON,II,60.266.7666

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he yede streyt to my lord Chauncelere PASTON,II,60.266.7667

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and told my seyd lord +tat yf the Kynge pardoned Syr Thomas Tudenham
and Heydon here issewes +tat the shire of Suffolk wold paye no taxe ;
PASTON,II,60.266.7668

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for what nedyth the Kynge for to have the taxe of hese pore puple
whanne he wyll not take hese issues of thoo ryche extorssioners and
oppressours of hese puple . PASTON,II,60.266.7669

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also he told my seyd lord Chaunceler and many mo lordes +tat yf +te
Kynge pardon hym or graunted any supersedeas London shuld with-jnne
short tyme have as meche for to do as they hadde for to kepe London
Brygge whanne +te Capteyn cam thedyr , PASTON,II,60.266.7670

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he told hym +tat ther was vp in Norffolk redy to ryse v m=l= and
moo yf they have not execucion of +te oyre and terminer .
PASTON,II,60.266.7671

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whanne my lord Chaunceler herd this he was ryte glade +terof ,
PASTON,II,60.266.7672

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dede Blake telle all this and meche more a-forn the Kynge and all
hese lordes , that they blyssed hem whanne they herden yt .
PASTON,II,60.266.7673

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf he hadde not a seyd thus they shuld an hadde a supersedeas and
pardon also , PASTON,II,60.266.7674

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ther was made a gret suggestion that it hadde be don of grette
malyce . PASTON,II,60.266.7675

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so +te Lord Scales meyntenyth Syr <P_II,61> Thomas Tudenham in all
that {in}_P he may goodly , PASTON,II,61.266.7676

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he wyll not $awow $yt {TEXT:awowyt} ; PASTON,II,61.266.7677

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he shall come don to +te oyre determinere sekerly , and for to make
an ende atwex Syr T. Tudenham and Swafham , PASTON,II,61.266.7678

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for {ED:he} hayth made a genttyl letter vn-to +te parson , +te baly ,
and +te inhabitaunce of Swafham PASTON,II,61.266.7679

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seth +tat he wyll do hese parte to sette +tem in rest and peas .
PASTON,II,61.266.7680

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so my mayster vnder-standeth +tat yf Swafham and he werne accorded
+tat thei shuld sette lytyll be Norwych . PASTON,II,61.266.7681

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +terfor my mayster prayeth yow +tat +ge wyll speke with the mayer
and hese brethern +tat they purvey that ther be atte Lenn a sufficiaunt
fellawshep to-gedyr and +tat ther be madde a grette noyse vp-on the
Lord Scales bothe of Tudenham and Heydon and for all thoo +tat arne of
+tat sekte , and +tat wyse purvyaunce $and ordenaunce be hadde how they
shull be demened ; PASTON,II,61.266.7682

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for this same day was +te parson of Swafham with my mayster ,
PASTON,II,61.266.7683

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they arne accorded that ther shall be of here lordshep a
sufficiaunt fellawshep and they shall have here loggyng atte +te
Freremenours atte Lenn . PASTON,II,61.266.7684

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And they wyll not assentte to noone ende but as +te cety doyth ,
PASTON,II,61.266.7685

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it is here avyse that the cyte` shuld purveye for hem in sum o+ter
freres ; PASTON,II,61.266.7686

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Tudenham and H. wyll brynge with hem sufficiaunt counceyll as any
kun they gete in London . PASTON,II,61.266.7687

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also the cetye must purvey that as many sufficiaunt men as can be
gette or spoke to +tat they be redy yf it happe of any tryall .
PASTON,II,61.266.7688

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also +te cety hadde nede to have Syr Miles Stapulton ther , thow they
shuld helpe to hese costys ward . PASTON,II,61.266.7689

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , atte the reuerens of God be-thenke yow well of all these maters .
PASTON,II,61.266.7690

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Blake was atte London on Thursday PASTON,II,61.266.7691

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and herd no word of +te stretes , ne of Robson , my lord of Oxford man
, PASTON,II,61.266.7692

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and or Blake cam to London Syr T. Terell hadde labored to Syr John
Fastolf +tat Syr T. Tudenham shuld a be bownde to Syr John Fastolf in
foure thowsand pounde to stande to hese rule and ordenaunce ;
PASTON,II,61.266.7693

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so whanne Blake cam and deysshsed all togedyr and so he dede Syr
John Fastolf labor to +te Kynge and to +te Chaunceler for to lette +te
supersedeas and +te pardon , PASTON,II,61.266.7694

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +ter was grette langage atwex Blake and Tudenham .
PASTON,II,61.266.7695

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It wor to meche to wryte yt vn-to yow , PASTON,II,61.266.7696

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he hayth sore noyssed my mayster to +te Kynge and to +te lordes .
PASTON,II,61.266.7697

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also Tudenham is owte of +te Kynges hows PASTON,II,61.266.7698

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Cotton is warderopper ; PASTON,II,61.266.7699

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
my mayster shall on Monday dyne with {ED:hym} . PASTON,II,61.266.7700

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also , syr , it wore grette wysdam +tat my mayster hadde knowlech atte
Walsyngham on Fryday nest comyng how the maire and +ge be acorded ,
PASTON,II,61.266.7701

<P_II,62>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my mayster wyld be rewlyd +ter-after . PASTON,II,62.266.7702

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
William Geney sent vn-to my mayster for to ascuse hym +tat he shuld not
come to Lenn vn-to the Wedenesday ; PASTON,II,62.266.7703

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and , syr , +tat wore a grette hurte bothe to the cyte` of Norwych and
for Swafham . PASTON,II,62.266.7704

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +terfor my mayster wold +tat the mayere shuld send for hym +tat he
be ther be tyme on +te Tuesday and +tat moo bille be made ayens
Tudenham and Heydon , what so euer falle . PASTON,II,62.266.7705

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te Holy Gost have yow and youre in hese kepyng . PASTON,II,62.266.7706

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_266:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn atte Rougham +te Sonday nyte nest after New+gers Day , in hast
as it semyth . Be your seruaunt W. Wayte PASTON,II,62.266.7707

<Q_PAS_A_1451_T_WWAYTE> <L_PASTON_267> <A_WILLIAM_WAYTE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,62>

{ED:472._FROM_WILLIAM_WAYTE_1451,_9_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my ryght reuerent and ryght wurchepfull mayster , myn Mayster
Paston , in hast posybyll . </font> PASTON,II,62.267.7708

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , lyke yt yow to know +tat my Lord Scalys sent hese purseuaunte
vn-to my mayster on the Twelthe Day +tat my mayster shuld mete with hym
atte Wynche aforn my lord of Oxenford on +te Thursday nest folwyng .
PASTON,II,62.267.7709

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whanne my mayster cam +tedyr he delyuered my mayster a letter from
my lord Chauncheler , qwych my mayster wyll shewe yow atte Lenn .
PASTON,II,62.267.7710

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shuld send yow a copy +ter-of , PASTON,II,62.267.7711

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it is so longe +tat I had no leyser to wryte it .
PASTON,II,62.267.7712

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My mayster rode to Walsyngham on +te Fryday folwyng ,
PASTON,II,62.267.7713

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +ter he mette with the shereve PASTON,II,62.267.7714

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +te shereve lyueryd my mayster a letter from my lord of Norffolk ,
qwych I send yow a copy of . PASTON,II,62.267.7715

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And atte Walsyngham my mayster resceyvyd a letter from Osberne youre
man . PASTON,II,62.267.7716

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +ter Heydones man made hese auaunte +tat he was a Justice of +te
Pease on Causton Heythe , PASTON,II,62.267.7717

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so it semyth be here contenaunce +tat they trost of a good +gere .
PASTON,II,62.267.7718

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , syr , whanne my mayster came on Saterday +ter was lyueryd my
mayster a letter from Syr John Fastolf PASTON,II,62.267.7719

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ano+ter letter cam to me from John Bokkyng , qwych I send yow a
copy of . PASTON,II,62.267.7720

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , God send vs a fayre day <P_II,63> atte Lenn , and +tat ther may
be peple j-now to crye vp-on +te Lorde Scales +tat he mayntene not Syr
T. T. and H. in here wronges , as +te copy of B. letter makyth mencion
. PASTON,II,63.267.7721

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , syr , atte +te reuerens of God , laborth youre maters wysely and
secretely , PASTON,II,63.267.7722

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Wyndam noysed yow sore aforn my lord of Oxenford and my Lorde
Scales +tat +ge shuld reyse meche puple with grette aray owte of
Norwych ; PASTON,II,63.267.7723

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +terfor , syr , late the puple be wysely and manly gydyd in here
spekyng and demenyng . PASTON,II,63.267.7724

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also my Lord Scales sent for +te parson of $Swafham {TEXT:Swfham} and
diuers men of the same town to mete with hym aforn my lord of Oxenford
+te seyd Thursday , for to trete with hem for Syr Thomas Tudenham ,
PASTON,II,63.267.7725

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +ter was +te baly of Swafham and Syr Thomas Tudenham prest .
PASTON,II,63.267.7726

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so my Lord Scales yave +te parson of S. grette langage , and to men
of {ED:+te} same towne . PASTON,II,63.267.7727

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And +te parson answherd my Lord Scales manly in +te best wyse ,
PASTON,II,63.267.7728

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +ter was grette langage a-twexen Blake +te baly and Tudenham prest
, +tat my lordes and my mayster worne acomberd +terof .
PASTON,II,63.267.7729

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so it is lyke +tat my Lord Scales shall make +ter no loveday ,
PASTON,II,63.267.7730

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so Swafham $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} +ter in here best array .
PASTON,II,63.267.7731

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also , syr , Brygge was atte Walsyngham , PASTON,II,63.267.7732

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +ter he craked grette wordes PASTON,II,63.267.7733

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyd to many diuers men +tat it shuld be thanked alle tho +tat
labored ayens hem . PASTON,II,63.267.7734

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he seyd +tat it worne but viij personys , PASTON,II,63.267.7735

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf men be men now it shuld be thanked hym and told hym atte Lenn in
+te best wysse . PASTON,II,63.267.7736

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is now with the Lord Scales . PASTON,II,63.267.7737

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Te Lord Scales wyte Thomas Denyes , John Lyster , and me all those
indytementes , PASTON,II,63.267.7738

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +te Lord Scales seyth +tat I made all +te bylles and +te panell ;
PASTON,II,63.267.7739

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he is hevy lord to me and to Thomas Denyes .
PASTON,II,63.267.7740

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Prentys is atte hom with +te Lord Scales . PASTON,II,63.267.7741

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The shereve told me +tat he wyll do for +te cyte` of Norwych as meche
as he may . PASTON,II,63.267.7742

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , I wold +ter worne a thowsand of good mandly men to crye owte on
Tudenham , Heydon , Prentys , and Brygge for here falsse exstorciones .
PASTON,II,63.267.7743

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also , syr , atte the reuerens of God make an ende atwexen Sexeford and
men of Salle ; PASTON,II,63.267.7744

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it lyeth in youre power . PASTON,II,63.267.7745

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall make redy youre forsebyll entre`s ayens Lenn , with the grace
of God , qwych have yow in hese kepyng . PASTON,II,63.267.7746

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn atte Rougham on Saterday nyte in hast . PASTON,II,63.267.7747

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , I sent yow a lewde letter be Richard Yemmys .
PASTON,II,63.267.7748

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseche yow be ware to whom +ge shew your letters .
PASTON,II,63.267.7749

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lete +tem be brente . PASTON,II,63.267.7750

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WAYTE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_267:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Be youre seruaunt W. Waytes PASTON,II,63.267.7751

<Q_PAS_A_1451_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_268> <A_JAMES_GLOYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,64>

{ED:473._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_1451,_1_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right reuerente and wurchepfull mayster John Paston ,
esquyere , be this $deliuered {TEXT:deliued} in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,64.268.7752

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right reuerent and wurchepfull ser , I recomand me to you , besechyng
you to wete that Wharles told me that Partrych seid that his lord knewe
wele that ye were entred pesibilly in the manere of Gresham ;
where-fore he seid thow the tenauntes and fermores pay you the rentes
and fermes the tyme that ye be in possession , his seid lord , thow he
entre ageyn , wuld neuer aske it them . PASTON,II,64.268.7753

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the seid Partrych seid to Wharles that his lord wull come down
hym-self and entre in the seid maner with-in short tyme .
PASTON,II,64.268.7754

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wharles wull not discharge your baly of xxvj s. and viij d. which he
toke the seid baly enseled in a purs . PASTON,II,64.268.7755

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The seid Wharles told my Mayster John of Berney at the court that he
repented hym that he payd you any peny till he had be distreyned ,
PASTON,II,64.268.7756

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid than pleynly that he wull nomore pay till he were
distreyned . PASTON,II,64.268.7757

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I haue be there diuers tymes for to distreyn hym ,
PASTON,II,64.268.7758

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I cowde neuer do it but if I wuld a distreyned hym in his moderes
hous ; PASTON,II,64.268.7759

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there I durst not for here cursyng . PASTON,II,64.268.7760

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The baly of the hundred told me that Wharles spake to hym in cas he had
be distreyned that he wold haue gete hym a replevy ,
PASTON,II,64.268.7761

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the baly bad hym kete a replevy of his mayster and he wold serve it
. PASTON,II,64.268.7762

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the maner londes at Gresham , with othre tenauntes londes that
be fallyn in your handes , ben letyn to ferme . PASTON,II,64.268.7763

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I can gete no tenaunte to dwell in the maner hous .
PASTON,II,64.268.7764

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if the rede shuld be caryed thens the tenauntes shuld thynk that ye
fered sum new entre` PASTON,II,64.268.7765

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it shuld sore discomfort hem , PASTON,II,64.268.7766

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for thei whisshed whan it was caried to the manere that it had be leyd
there thus pesibly ij yere afore . PASTON,II,64.268.7767

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} the obligacyon that ye shuld haue of the parson
of Cressyngham , he seth he cam neuer at Cressyngham syth he spake with
you , and that he be-hested it you not till Fastyngong .
PASTON,II,64.268.7768

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
His hors ben stolyn PASTON,II,64.268.7769

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there-fore he may not ryde . PASTON,II,64.268.7770

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Gonnore kept a court at Routon the Thursday next after Seynt
Mathy the Appostell , PASTON,II,64.268.7771

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it was told me that Bettes was there with hym , <P_II,65>
where-fore I rode thedere . PASTON,II,65.268.7772

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And be-cause that it was a fraunchised town and with-in the Duchye ,
and also that Gonnore had gret rewle in the seid town , I toke with me
the baly of the hundred PASTON,II,65.268.7773

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and set hym with me in my lord of Norffolkes warant ,
PASTON,II,65.268.7774

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than yede in-to the court there as Gonnore and Bettes wern .
PASTON,II,65.268.7775

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The seid baly told Gonnore of this warant , PASTON,II,65.268.7776

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Gonnore rebuked hym so that he durst not a-rest the seid Bettes .
PASTON,II,65.268.7777

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I toke it vpon me PASTON,II,65.268.7778

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and arested hym my-self as he sate be Gonnore . PASTON,II,65.268.7779

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Gonnore desired than to se my warant , PASTON,II,65.268.7780

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I shewed it hym , PASTON,II,65.268.7781

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid he wold obey it as the lawe wold . PASTON,II,65.268.7782

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he proferyd me suerte` men of the seid town of Routon .
PASTON,II,65.268.7783

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I told hym and he wold be bownd hym-self with othre I wuld a-gre
there-to , PASTON,II,65.268.7784

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I wuld haue no shipmen that had nought ner such men that rought
neuer , and thei were onys vn the see , wheder thei come a-geyn or
noght . PASTON,II,65.268.7785

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than Bettes toke Gonnore a supersedias that he had of Wychyngham
twelmoneth a-go for an-othre man that asked suerte` of the seid Bettes
. PASTON,II,65.268.7786

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I wold haue had it , PASTON,II,65.268.7787

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he wold not lete me haue it nere shewe it me but in his handes .
PASTON,II,65.268.7788

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I told hym that it was noght , PASTON,II,65.268.7789

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid it was gode j-now . PASTON,II,65.268.7790

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I bad hym take it me for my discharge , PASTON,II,65.268.7791

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid pleynly I shuld not haue it . PASTON,II,65.268.7792

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I told hym I wold haue my prisonere . PASTON,II,65.268.7793

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The seid Gonnore seid I shuld not haue hym , PASTON,II,65.268.7794

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and dede set all the tenauntes vp-on me PASTON,II,65.268.7795

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and made a gret noyse , PASTON,II,65.268.7796

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seydyn all pleynly I shuld not haue hym jf he wold a-byde with hem
. PASTON,II,65.268.7797

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I told Gonnore that I shuld certifie a rescuse ,
PASTON,II,65.268.7798

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prayd the baly of the hundred that he wold record the same .
PASTON,II,65.268.7799

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the seid Gonnore seid I myght haue favoryd the seid Bettes the
more be-cause the seid Bettes was my Mayster Stapylton man , and that
his men shuld not be bownd and I shuld go lose . PASTON,II,65.268.7800

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seid I shuld be tyed or aght longe , and all my feleshep bothyn ;
PASTON,II,65.268.7801

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but God yeld hym , PASTON,II,65.268.7802

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he hath yovyn me iiij days respyte . PASTON,II,65.268.7803

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I told hym it shuld neuer ly in his powere to bynde me nere non of
my feleshep so fast but that it shuld ly in your powere to make hym to
losyn vs , PASTON,II,65.268.7804

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if that he a-bode in Norffolk he shuld be made to seke the skyrtes
of his sadill or Estern . PASTON,II,65.268.7805

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if he had kept his wey that nyght I shuld haue kept hym trewe
comenaunte , PASTON,II,65.268.7806

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I lay on wayte vp-on hym on the heth as he shuld haue comen humward
, PASTON,II,65.268.7807

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if I myght haue met with hym I shuld haue had Bettes from hym ;
PASTON,II,65.268.7808

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he had leyd such wetche that he had aspied vs or he cam fully at vs
, PASTON,II,65.268.7809

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he remembred Wymdhams manhood , that iiij swyft fete were better
than ij handes , PASTON,II,65.268.7810

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he toke his hors with the spores PASTON,II,65.268.7811

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and rode to Felbrygge Hall as fast as he myght rydyn ;
PASTON,II,65.268.7812

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I suppose he lay there all that nyght . PASTON,II,65.268.7813

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the seid Gonnore manased and thret John of Beston for he wuld
not warn hym here-of , PASTON,II,65.268.7814

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he dede sease all his lond in Routon PASTON,II,65.268.7815

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and warned hym that he shuld not occupy his lyme kyll nere no lond that
he had in Routon . PASTON,II,65.268.7816

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he mad his avaunte whan I was gon if that I had not brought the
baly of the hundred with me I shuld neuer haue go thens ,
PASTON,II,65.268.7817

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and <P_II,66> yet not withstandyng that I brought the baly with me and
thei had wust where myn hors had stond I shuld have be wele betyn .
PASTON,II,66.268.7818

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
All this langage had thei whan that I was gon . PASTON,II,66.268.7819

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the seid Gonnore seid after that I was gon to the tenauntes of
the seid town that his supersedias was noght , PASTON,II,66.268.7820

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and $as $for {TEXT:asfor} the rescuse he shuld purvey a mene to excuse
it . PASTON,II,66.268.7821

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Where-fore and it pleasyd you to send my mastres word how that I shuld
be demened with the seid Bettes , and wheder that ye wuld I shuld
a-rest hym ageyn or nought , and to purvey such a mene for Gonnore that
he myght ley his bost , jt shuld be gret comfort to all yowre frendes
and tenauntes there a-bowtyn . PASTON,II,66.268.7822

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I haue be at my Mayster Stapilton with your writtes ,
PASTON,II,66.268.7823

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he made it right straunge for to ensele hem . PASTON,II,66.268.7824

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seid that he knew of nown such jnquisicion takyn at Swafham be-forn
hym . PASTON,II,66.268.7825

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seid if it were presented there it was presented in his absens whill
that he was in his jnne ; where-fore he seid he wold not ensele hem
till he sey the bokes . PASTON,II,66.268.7826

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Whan I had answeryd hym there-to , than he seid he wold comown with my
Mayster Yeluerton here-of whan he come home , PASTON,II,66.268.7827

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and till he had spoke with hym he wold not ensele hem .
PASTON,II,66.268.7828

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I told hym my Mayster Yeluerton had enseled hem . PASTON,II,66.268.7829

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than he seid he knew not my Maister Yeluerton seall .
PASTON,II,66.268.7830

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He shewed it Gonnore PASTON,II,66.268.7831

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and asked hym wheder it was his seall or noght . PASTON,II,66.268.7832

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Gonnore seid it was his seall . PASTON,II,66.268.7833

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than my Mayster Stapilton brake ought of this matere
PASTON,II,66.268.7834

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and spake to me of the a-restyng of Bettes and makyng of affray vp-on
Gonnore . PASTON,II,66.268.7835

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seid Gonnore cam to hym to compleyn vp-on me . PASTON,II,66.268.7836

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I told hym that Gonnore had enformed hym as it plesyd hym ,
PASTON,II,66.268.7837

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I had yove hym no cause to compleyn of me , PASTON,II,66.268.7838

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if it pleased hym to here myn excuse he shuld fynd me in no defaute
. PASTON,II,66.268.7839

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Whan he had herd myn excuse he cowde not blame me .
PASTON,II,66.268.7840

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Meche othre langage we had , PASTON,II,66.268.7841

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I was with hym nere an owere . PASTON,II,66.268.7842

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than he asked me wheder the jnquesicion was taken be-fore the justice
of the peas or the justice of the oyere determynere .
PASTON,II,66.268.7843

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I told hym be-fore the justice of the peas , PASTON,II,66.268.7844

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I seid it was the cessyons of the peas at Swafham .
PASTON,II,66.268.7845

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than he bad me put vp my warantes , PASTON,II,66.268.7846

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he seid he wold not ensele hem till he had comownd with my Mayster
Yeluerton . PASTON,II,66.268.7847

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I told hym it shuld not nede to comown with my Mayster Yeluerton nere
labore hym there-fore , PASTON,II,66.268.7848

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I seid it myght not hurt thow he enseled hem not ;
PASTON,II,66.268.7849

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I seid the writtes were executed and that the shereff had mad ought
warantes of them , and his warantes were executed ,
PASTON,II,66.268.7850

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so the seid writtes shuld stand you in litill avayll ; save only ,
I told hym , ye desiryd his seall be-cause it was fownd be-fore othre
lordes with hym and that he stode in the teste of the seid writtes
PASTON,II,66.268.7851

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and that was cause of my comyng theder . PASTON,II,66.268.7852

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than he wend I had comyn for to assayn hym , PASTON,II,66.268.7853

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
fore forthwith he enseled hem ; PASTON,II,66.268.7854

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but me thynk be his language he hath be labored of the toder part .
PASTON,II,66.268.7855

<P_II,67>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , and it pleased your gode maystershep to gete of my Mayster
Yeluerton a supersedias for John Osbern and an-othre for me .
PASTON,II,67.268.7856

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
We suppose that Gonnore and Bettes wull do vs a-rest ,
PASTON,II,67.268.7857

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and we wuld the supersedias that we haue ought of the Chauncery were
kept till more nede were . PASTON,II,67.268.7858

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My mastres recomand here to you PASTON,II,67.268.7859

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and prayth you to hold here excused that she write yow no letter ,
PASTON,II,67.268.7860

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for myche of the matere that she shuld haue wrete to you I had wrete in
my letter or she knew there-of , PASTON,II,67.268.7861

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also she knew not of so redy a massangere as I had .
PASTON,II,67.268.7862

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And it plesyd your gode maystershep to send vs a pardon for to assoylyn
Gonnore this holy tyme of Lentyn , the rathere be-cause of this gret
bulle , we shuld leue in the more reste and peas and kepe the more our
pacyence than we do . PASTON,II,67.268.7863

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Holy Trynyte` haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,II,67.268.7864

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn on the Monday next after Seynt Mathie the Appostell jn hast .
PASTON,II,67.268.7865

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_268:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore seruaunte James Gloys PASTON,II,67.268.7866

<Q_PAS_A_1451_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_269> <A_JAMES_GLOYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,67>

{ED:474._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_1451,_2_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right reuerent and wurchepfull mayster John Paston ,
esquier , be this deliuered in hast . </font> PASTON,II,67.269.7867

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right reuerent and wurchepfull ser , I recomand me to you , prayng you
to wete that I haue labored diuers men that ben enpaneld a-twix my
mastres your modere and Wymdham . PASTON,II,67.269.7868

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
There be many of them woll do here parte , PASTON,II,67.269.7869

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there ben summe that wull not passe there-vp-on ,
PASTON,II,67.269.7870

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for thei ben a-ferd that the werd shuld turne . PASTON,II,67.269.7871

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
It is noysed in Norwhich that my lord of Oxenford , my Mayster
Yeluerton , and ye , and John Damme shuld be endited in Kent for
mayntenaunce of the oyere determynere in Norffolk ,
PASTON,II,67.269.7872

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and this with othre feryth sore men of Norwhich . PASTON,II,67.269.7873

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I trow my mastres writyth to you here-of more clerly .
PASTON,II,67.269.7874

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Wymdham hath be diuers tymes at my Mastres Clere and mad hym
erandes to here , and told here that he was sued in my mastres your
moderes name PASTON,II,67.269.7875

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he supposyd that she knew not there-of . PASTON,II,67.269.7876

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He thought that ye and James Gresham had do it vn malyce , my mastres
your moderes <P_II,68> vnknowyng . PASTON,II,68.269.7877

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
But whan he knew that I labored the enqueste , than he sent my Mastres
Clere word how that he knew wele that it was my mastres your moderes
labore . PASTON,II,68.269.7878

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , he told my Lady of Morle` of this sute , PASTON,II,68.269.7879

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid that he wend that my seid lady had mad an hend a-twix them
for the seid sute . PASTON,II,68.269.7880

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Heydons men brought his awyn hors and his sadyll thourgh Aylsham
on Monday , PASTON,II,68.269.7881

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thei comyn in at the Busshoppes gates at Norwhich
PASTON,II,68.269.7882

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and comyn ouer Tomelond and in-to the Abbey . PASTON,II,68.269.7883

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Thei a-bedyn there all that nyght and ij days after , wenyng to men of
the town that Heydon had go ouer the fery and so in-to the Abbey ;
PASTON,II,68.269.7884

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and sythyn thei seyd thei shuld go to London for Heydon .
PASTON,II,68.269.7885

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , sum seyn that Heydon shuld be mad a knyght ,
PASTON,II,68.269.7886

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and myche othre langage there is which causyth men to ben aferd ,
wenyng that he shuld haue a rewle a-geyn . PASTON,II,68.269.7887

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , there were ij men at John Betes of Holt . PASTON,II,68.269.7888

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Thei had langage of the Lord Moleyns . PASTON,II,68.269.7889

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If it please yow to enquere of Symond , bryngere of this letter , he
shall enforme you of here langage . PASTON,II,68.269.7890

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Gonnore was wetched at Felbrygge Halle with xl persones of +te
Lady Felbrygges tenauntes and more that nyght that I lay on wayte vp-on
hym , PASTON,II,68.269.7891

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he durst not go home on the next day till thei brought hym home .
PASTON,II,68.269.7892

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Thei mad a compleynt to my Lady Felbrygge , PASTON,II,68.269.7893

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and my mastres hath excused it . PASTON,II,68.269.7894

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , $thei manase Burflet PASTON,II,68.269.7895

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and wull sease his lond . PASTON,II,68.269.7896

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Symond shall telle yow how thei were answerd . PASTON,II,68.269.7897

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for the subsidy that Ser Herry $Inglos and the Lady Felbrygge
shuld payn , the meyre knowe not yet veryly what thei shuld pay ,
PASTON,II,68.269.7898

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for thei haue not cast the valew of here londes . PASTON,II,68.269.7899

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The bill closyd in this letter maketh mensyon of the valew of diuers
gentilmens londes that $ben examyned in Norwhich .
PASTON,II,68.269.7900

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
We can not know what Calthorp payth , PASTON,II,68.269.7901

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for we can not speke with the shereffe ner the $vndre-shereffe ner no
man that gadered that hundred there as Calthorp dwellyth .
PASTON,II,68.269.7902

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Holy Trynyte` haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,II,68.269.7903

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$Wretyn the Tuesday next after Seynt Mathie in hast .
PASTON,II,68.269.7904

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_269:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore $seruaunt James $Gloys PASTON,II,68.269.7905

<Q_PAS_A_1451_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_270> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,69>

{ED:475._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1451,_4_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,69.270.7906

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull ser and my right good maister , I recomaunde me to
yow . PASTON,II,69.270.7907

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is so that vp-on an hasty sodeyn warnyng I departid from London and
spake not with yow at my departyng , wherof I was full sory .
PASTON,II,69.270.7908

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray yow neuerthelesse that ye wole eftsones speke to William White
with my lord Cardenall , PASTON,II,69.270.7909

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I desire his maistership and good will PASTON,II,69.270.7910

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wole do to my power . PASTON,II,69.270.7911

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as touchyng to that that he semith I haf don agayn hym , in good
feith I wole abide your rule or , by Seynt Kateryne , his own rule .
PASTON,II,69.270.7912

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is a gentilman PASTON,II,69.270.7913

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I wole don it with good will . PASTON,II,69.270.7914

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am right sory ye had not set me thorgh with hym erst I went ,
PASTON,II,69.270.7915

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for a haf prayed yow ther-of , as ye know your-self , dyuers tymes .
PASTON,II,69.270.7916

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Holy Trinite' preserue yow . PASTON,II,69.270.7917

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Weuenho the iiij day of Marche . PASTON,II,69.270.7918

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your seruaunt Denyes PASTON,II,69.270.7919

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , my lord hath kept sessiouns at Colchestre and my Maister
Yeluerton with hym , PASTON,II,69.270.7920

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he desired me to write to yow to be wel ware if ony fals suggestion
or lesynges wer made by Tudenham and Heydon and that to your power thei
be answered in his absence . PASTON,II,69.270.7921

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for my Lord Scales , her be seven of {ED:his} housold meny indited
of felony , which ar strong thefes . PASTON,II,69.270.7922

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , I pray yow write in hast to the meir of Norwich to gif credens
to me whan I come to hym , PASTON,II,69.270.7923

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if ye so do I shal shape their articles and billes in-to a nother
facion , I trust , and make thaym redy and delyuer thaym resonably wele
. PASTON,II,69.270.7924

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord purposeth to be at London the ende of the first weke of Lent ,
and not erst . PASTON,II,69.270.7925

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray your maistership se sum meane that White do me not that harme in
the Chauncery wherof ye sent me word by Brayn , PASTON,II,69.270.7926

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for , as God sauf my soule at the day of Jugement , I fonde surete` for
the pees , PASTON,II,69.270.7927

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the Maister of the Rolles ful vntruly recordeth that surete` takyn
as a baile , wher of trouth it was other-wise , PASTON,II,69.270.7928

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ful synnefully ruleth that mater , PASTON,II,69.270.7929

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and neuer wold suffir me to execute the acte PASTON,II,69.270.7930

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but <P_II,70> lettid me , not-withstandyng it is a law priuate in the
self , as I shal clerly declare whan I come . PASTON,II,70.270.7931

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Holy Trinite` preserve yow . PASTON,II,70.270.7932

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_270:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I write to you thus that ye may kyt awey this lower part of this lettre
. PASTON,II,70.270.7933

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_271> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,70>

{ED:476._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1451,_30_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure ryght trusty and right welbeloued frend Johan Paston ,
esquier . </font> PASTON,II,70.271.7934

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
The Erle of Oxenford PASTON,II,70.271.7935

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , we grete you right hertily well .
PASTON,II,70.271.7936

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for asmuche as we be enformed that on Thomas Kecham , a seruaunt of
oure right welbeloued brothir Ser Richard de Veer , knyght , hath to
done with Ser Henry Inglos , knyght , in a certeyn matier in wich youre
good maisterschep may cause his singuler ease and a-vaile as anenst the
said knyght , as Thomas Kecham hath enformed vs , we pray you hertily
that at the reuerens of vs and this oure writyng ye woll take the
labour vpon you to speke vnto the said Ser Henry , conceyuyng a mene
and the weye of an ende to be had be-twix thaym of right , causyng the
said knyght to sease of hese malice and wrongful suette as a-nenst the
said Thomas . PASTON,II,70.271.7937

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And ferthermore we pray you to see that the said knyght take no
benefeys ne prevayle nat as a-nenst the Gaoyler of the Castell of
Norwych for the suerte` of the said Thomas Kecham , as we verily trust
ye woll ; in wich feithfully doyng we shall kun you hertily thanke .
PASTON,II,70.271.7938

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And right trusty and welbeloued , the Trinite` haue yow in hese kepyng
. PASTON,II,70.271.7939

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_271:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wreton at oure manoir of Weuenhoo the last day of Aprill .
PASTON,II,70.271.7940

<Q_PAS_A_1451_T_WLOMNOR> <L_PASTON_272> <A_WILLIAM_LOMNOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,72>

{ED:478._FROM_WILLIAM_LOMNOR_1451,_ABOUT_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchipfulle ser , yours goode cosynes and frendes avyse yow to
come to Walsyngham , and that ye be +tere to-morw betymes at vj on the
clok ; PASTON,II,72.272.7941

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Lord Moleyns offreth a trete` for the goodes and amendes to be
made or he goth ought of this contre` , PASTON,II,72.272.7942

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if it be not taken his men shulle justifie , whe {ED:r} opon your
title myght be hurte . PASTON,II,72.272.7943

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lorde Skales , the justice , and othere knygtes and squyeres
merveyle grettly ye come not , PASTON,II,72.272.7944

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thow they that haue not so true and evident mater as ye haue
concelle yow to be absent , yet I wolde ye dede as ye be desyrid be
that felaship , PASTON,II,72.272.7945

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for many wolde yow right welle . PASTON,II,72.272.7946

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whanne ye come I shalle telle yow more . PASTON,II,72.272.7947

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lorde Moleyns shulde not haue be aquyte of his comaundement hadde
he not sworen on a boke , sweche evidens was ayens hym ;
PASTON,II,72.272.7948

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$and {TEXT:ad} ther is no jentelman wolde aquite his men for no goode ,
&c . PASTON,II,72.272.7949

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_272:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
W. Lomnour PASTON,II,72.272.7950

<Q_PAS_A_1451_FS_JOSBERN> <L_PASTON_273> <A_JOHN_OSBERN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,72>

{ED:479._FROM_JOHN_OSBERN_1451,_27_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght reverent and worchepful Master John Paston be this
delyverid . </font> PASTON,II,72.273.7951

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plese it your masterchep to wete that I have spoke wyth the shereff at
hese place , mevyng to hym , as for that that was left wyth hese
vndere-shereff , it is your wyl he shuld send a man of hese for it ;
PASTON,II,72.273.7952

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for thow it were more ye wold gladly he shuld take it .
PASTON,II,72.273.7953

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He thanked yow PASTON,II,72.273.7954

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and sayde hese vnder-shereff <P_II,73> was at London ,
PASTON,II,73.273.7955

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hym-selff had non deserved ; PASTON,II,73.273.7956

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if he had he wold a take it . PASTON,II,73.273.7957

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And whan I departyd from hym I desyerid hym a-yen to send ther-ffore ,
PASTON,II,73.273.7958

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than he seyde it shuld abyde tyl ye come hom ; wherby I conceyve he
$wolde have it and be gladde to take it . PASTON,II,73.273.7959

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Moreover I remembred hym of hese promyses made before to yow at London
when he toke $hese oth and charche , and that ye were wyth hym when he
toke hese oth and oder dyuers tymes ; PASTON,II,73.273.7960

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and for tho promyses made be hym to yow at $that tyme and other tymes
at the oyer determynere at Lynne ye purposed yow , be the trust that ye
have in hym , for to atempte and rere accions that shuld be to the
avayle of hym and of hese office . PASTON,II,73.273.7961

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He wold a know what tho accions shuld be . PASTON,II,73.273.7962

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I sayde I coude not telle hym ; PASTON,II,73.273.7963

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than he seyde he wold do for yow that he may , excepte for the
aquitell of the Lord Molyns men , in so meche as the Kyng hath wrete to
hym for to shewe favour to the Lord Molyns and hese men .
PASTON,II,73.273.7964

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as he seyth , the indytement longyth to the Kyng and not to yow ,
and the Lord Molyns a gret lord . PASTON,II,73.273.7965

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , as he seyth , now late the Lord Molyns hath sent hym a letter ,
and my lord of Norffolk anoder , for to shew favour in these
indytementes . PASTON,II,73.273.7966

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He $dare $not {TEXT:darnot} abyde the joporte` of that that he shuld
offende the Kyngges comaundment . PASTON,II,73.273.7967

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He know not how the Kyng may be informed of hym and what shal be seyde
to hym . PASTON,II,73.273.7968

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And than I sayde , as for any joporte` that he shuld abyde in any thyng
that he doth for yow or be your desyre , ye have offered hym , and wol
parformet , sufficient sewerte` for to save hym harmeles ,
PASTON,II,73.273.7969

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and therfore I supposid ther wold non resonable man thynk but that he
myght do for yow wyth-owte any joporte` . PASTON,II,73.273.7970

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And then he seyde he myth non sewerte` take that passid c li. , and the
Lord Molyns is a gret lord , he myght sone cause hym to lese that and
meche mo . PASTON,II,73.273.7971

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than I sayde be that meane in defawte of a shereff every man may be put
from hese lyvelod ; PASTON,II,73.273.7972

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than he seyde iff it were for the lyvelode men wold take hem the
nerer for to abyde a joporte` ; PASTON,II,73.273.7973

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but be hese feyth , as he swore , if the Kyng wryte a-yen to hym he wol
no lenger abyde the joporte` of the Kyngges wrytynges ,
PASTON,II,73.273.7974

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he trustyth to Godde to in-panell seche men as shuln to hese
knowleche be indeferent and non comon jurours . PASTON,II,73.273.7975

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As me semyth it wold do goode and ye wold gete a comaundment of the
Kyng to the shereff for to shew yow favour and to inpanell jantelmen ,
and not for to favour non seche ryottes , &c. ; PASTON,II,73.273.7976

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he seyde that he sent yow the letter +tat the Kyng sent hym ,
PASTON,II,73.273.7977

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ye seyde a man shuld gete seche on for a noble .
PASTON,II,73.273.7978

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I remembred hym of the promyses that he hath made to Temperley ,
and that if he wold make yow very trew promys ye wold rewarde hym as
meche as he wold desire , or any other resonable man for hym , and
<P_II,74> asmoche and more then any aduersary ye have wold gef hym .
PASTON,II,74.273.7979

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than he seyde he toke neuer no mony of non of hem : alle there was
proferid hym at Walsyngham for the Lord Molyns xx nobles , he had not a
peny . PASTON,II,74.273.7980

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Moreouer I proferyd hym if he wold make yow promys that ye myght veryly
trust vpon hym ye wold geff hym in hande as he wold desire , or to leve
a summe if he wold a named it in a mene mannys hand , and seche as he
hath trust to . PASTON,II,74.273.7981

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And then he seyde if he myght do for yow , or if he do any thyng for
yow , then he wol take yowre mony wyth a good wyl ;
PASTON,II,74.273.7982

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and other promys I coude not have of hym but that he wol do for yow all
that he may excepte for the inditementes . PASTON,II,74.273.7983

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I conceyve veryly he hath made promys to do hese part that they shul be
a-quytte ; PASTON,II,74.273.7984

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I suppose he hath made non other promys a-yens yow for the lyvelode
, but he lokyth aftyre a gret brybe . PASTON,II,74.273.7985

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
But it is not for to trust hym veryly , wythowte that he may not chese
. PASTON,II,74.273.7986

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I suppose he had no wrytyng fro my lord of Norffolk as he seyde .
PASTON,II,74.273.7987

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I was at Framyngham for to a spoke wyth $Tymperley {TEXT:Tympley} ,
Debnam , or Berry , PASTON,II,74.273.7988

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and they were all ought . PASTON,II,74.273.7989

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My lord as he come from London he was at Yepysweche vn Moneday ,
PASTON,II,74.273.7990

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and when he {ED:was}_BED wyth-owth the town toward Framyngham he bad
all hese men ryde forth afore a gret pase , PASTON,II,74.273.7991

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he wold folwe softely ; PASTON,II,74.273.7992

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and when hese men were owte of syght he rode wyth v men to a squieris
place of hese there-by PASTON,II,74.273.7993

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and vn Tewsday rodde my lady to hym . PASTON,II,74.273.7994

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so I dede nought at Framyngham . PASTON,II,74.273.7995

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Nomore at this tyme , but All-myghty Jesu spede yow and have yow in
hese kepyng . PASTON,II,74.273.7996

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_273:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wrete at Norwiche the Thursday next aftyre Sent Avstyn . Be your
seruaunt John Osbern PASTON,II,74.273.7997

<Q_PAS_A_1451_FO_JBERNEY> <L_PASTON_274> <A_JOHN_BERNEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,75>

{ED:481._FROM_JOHN_BERNEY_[OF_WITCHINGHAM]_1451,_20_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To the ryght worshpful John Paston , esquyer . </font>
PASTON,II,75.274.7998

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght worshipfull , &c. , please +gou to comfort and help my pouer
tenaunt Symond Sparre , whech ys a-restyd by warant at the sute of +te
Lord Scalys for Ser T. Tudynham shepp . PASTON,II,75.274.7999

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And , ser , vppon Fryday last passyd Blake , +te Kyngys secratory ,
tolde me that +ter was delyuered a supersedyas for all men in +tat sute
. PASTON,II,75.274.8000

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But , ser , as my verry trust is in +gou for +tis , lat it be easyd ,
as I may doo for +gou , &c. , PASTON,II,75.274.8001

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for , ser , I $may $not {TEXT:maynot} attent by-cause I am ocupyed wyth
my suster for hir husbond , Ser Rychard Veuuter , dessessyd vpon Fryday
last , &c . PASTON,II,75.274.8002

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_274:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wretyn in gret hast vpon Trenyte` Sunday . By +goure pouer cousyn John
Berneye PASTON,II,75.274.8003

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_RWILLOUGHBY> <L_PASTON_275> <A_ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,76>

{ED:482._FROM_ROBERT_LORD_WILLOUGHBY_NOT_AFTER_1451,_16_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,76.275.8004

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued ser , y grete you well often tymes .
PASTON,II,76.275.8005

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for as much as y am enformed +tat my seruant Regnald Baldon hath a
do with you for certayn lyflode which was his fadirs , wherin your
fadir was enfeffed , wherfore y pray you hertely +tat ye wil shewe him
your good maistirship and fauour in such wyse +tat he may knowe he
farith +te bettir for this my writing , as my trust is in you .
PASTON,II,76.275.8006

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And God haue you in kepyng . PASTON,II,76.275.8007

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Boston +te xvj day of Decembre . PASTON,II,76.275.8008

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_1:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_275:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Robert Lord Wylughby PASTON,II,76.275.8009

<Q_PAS_A_1451_T_RSOUTHWELL> <L_PASTON_276> <A_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,76>

{ED:483._FROM_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL_1451,_18_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my mastir John Paston , esquier . </font>
PASTON,II,76.276.8010

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshippfull ser , I recomaunde me vnto you .
PASTON,II,76.276.8011

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And please it you to witte of oure newe tydinges here :
PASTON,II,76.276.8012

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as this day com writing both to my lorde and to my lady from London
that there be certein lettres directed to my lorde from my lady his
moder and diuerse other lordes for to haue Danyell <P_II,77> in his
fauour a-geyne , and as it is $supposed by the meanes of the Duc of
Somersette , PASTON,II,77.276.8013

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath ben right conuersaunte with hym all this quarter of $this
yere . PASTON,II,77.276.8014

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also thei +tat sent this writing sayn playnly that the Lorde Skales
is gode lorde to hym and +tat he hath promysed hym to make Ser Thomas
Tudenham , Heydon , and hym accorded , and other mo in the cuntre` ,
and that he shall be suffred to entre in-to Brayston and kepe it to
+t'entente +tat the cuntre` shall thinke , and my lorde also , +tat he
hath grete fauour amonge the lordes of the Counsell and cause men to
fere hym +te more . PASTON,II,77.276.8015

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whethir it be thus or non I can not say . PASTON,II,77.276.8016

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neuerthelesse me thinketh ye shall sone knowe if Mounford will agree
+tat he shall entre in-to Brayston , PASTON,II,77.276.8017

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if +tat be trewe all the remenaunt shall seme the more likly .
PASTON,II,77.276.8018

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you brenne this letter when ye haue redde it .
PASTON,II,77.276.8019

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde and my lady sayn ye shall be right welcome
PASTON,II,77.276.8020

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ye will se theym this Cristemasse . PASTON,II,77.276.8021

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I reporte me to your wisdam . PASTON,II,77.276.8022

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And God haue you in his keping . PASTON,II,77.276.8023

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writon at Framlyngham the xviij day of Decembre . PASTON,II,77.276.8024

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:30
LETTER:PASTON_276:M4:1451:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Richard Suthwell PASTON,II,77.276.8025

<Q_PAS_C_1452_T_RICHARDY> <L_PASTON_277> <A_RICHARD_OF_YORK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1411> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,77>

{ED:484._RICHARD_DUKE_OF_YORK,_TO_PASTON_AMONG_OTHERS_1452,_9_FEBR
UARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To oure right trusty and welbeloued {ED:BLANK} Pagraue ,
{ED:BLANK} Bokenham , John Wyndam , John Paston , William Calthorp ,
Thomas Gurney , William Norwich , and Nicholas Ovy , and to euery of
thaim . </font> PASTON,II,77.277.8026

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of York , &c . PASTON,II,77.277.8027

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued , we grete you hertily wel ,
PASTON,II,77.277.8028

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and wol ye wit that the reuerend fader in God , oure right trusty and
entierly welbeloued cousin the Bisshop of Ely , hath rapported vnto vs
this same day that Thomas Danyell vppon Tuesday last passed entred with
force in the manoir of Braydeston vppon Osborn Mountford and his son
being at Calais in the Kyng oure souuerain lordes seruice , and
dispoylled thaire goodes ; sayeng <P_II,78> and affermyng for
maintenance of his saide presumptueux and vnlawful entree that othre
lordes and we stode enfeffed in the saide manoir to +te vse of him and
of his wyf terme of thaire lyves , and +tat hit was the wille of +te
saide lordes and of vs +tat he shuld soo entre , and +te same lordes
and we forto assiste him in keping of his possession . Wherfore , in
somuch as the same suggestion and surmission toucheth oure honneur and
the pretense therof shuld yeve vs occasion of greet noyse and charge ,
we certifie vnto you and to euery of you for trouth +tat we knewe
neuere such feffement made , ner we consented neuere to such forcible
entree ; PASTON,II,78.277.8029

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and we dysavoue hit by thees oure lettres signed with oure owne hande ,
to +t'entent +tat +te parties greeued may haue +taire accion yif thay
bee so aduised , and due processe of law to bee executed , as in such
caas hit is required . PASTON,II,78.277.8030

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued , Oure Lord haue you in his keping .
PASTON,II,78.277.8031

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yeven vndre oure signet at London +te ix day of Feuerer .
PASTON,II,78.277.8032

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_277:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
R. York PASTON,II,78.277.8033

<Q_PAS_C_1452_T_JCLOPTON> <L_PASTON_278> <A_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,79>

{ED:486._FROM_JOHN_CLOPTON_1452,_1_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vnto myn right worshipfull sire John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,79.278.8034

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull sire and myn good maister , I recomaund me vnto you ,
thankyng you of your gentilnesse chewed vnto me , praynge you of
contenuance as myn full trust is . PASTON,II,79.278.8035

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Furthermore , and it please you to be atte a leyser vn Seynt Mark Day
next comyng , and to be at Thetford , myn brodir Tyrell and I wole
awayte vppon you ther for the matere ye woot of . PASTON,II,79.278.8036

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I praye you to hold me excused that I myght not kepe myn day in the
Passion Wike , PASTON,II,79.278.8037

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for in good feight I was so occupied I myght not .
PASTON,II,79.278.8038

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , sire , yif this day may be hold I praye you sendith me woord ,
that I myght send warnyng to the todir party . PASTON,II,79.278.8039

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also , sire , I haue warned your atteynt accordyng to your comawndement
. PASTON,II,79.278.8040

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sir , the Kyng hath sent vnto me by Howard to be frendly to the Lord
<P_II,80> Moleyns . PASTON,II,80.278.8041

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Not-with-stondyng myn seruice shall be redy at your comawndement in
that matere er any othir , by the grace of God , who preserue you body
and sowle . PASTON,II,80.278.8042

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_278:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Melford the furste day of Aprill . Be youres , J. Clopton
PASTON,II,80.278.8043

<Q_PAS_A_1452_FS_JOSBERN> <L_PASTON_279> <A_JOHN_OSBERN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,80>

{ED:487._FROM_JOHN_OSBERN_1452,_14_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right reuerent and worchepful Maister John Paston in the
Iner In of the Temple be this delyuered in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,80.279.8044

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it your maisterchep to wete that John Reynere and Nicholaus
Strecok of Sparham have gete a respyte of Nicholaus Byschop for the
distresse that the seid Byschop had take , as ye knowe wel , tyl seche
tyme as ye may speke wyth Symond Blake for the trought of the mater .
PASTON,II,80.279.8045

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Not wythstandyng this respite myght never be gete tyll that Byschop had
a reward of mony ; PASTON,II,80.279.8046

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
it is told me he toke viij d. for hese reward . PASTON,II,80.279.8047

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The dryvers ought of the catell fro Sparham ground to Lyng grownd wasse
Hugo Sadde of Baldeswelle , Byschoppis man , Nicholaus Gatesend ,
Roberd Joye , Jacobus Baxter of Lyng . PASTON,II,80.279.8048

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
James Gloys hath a bill of the tyme and daye . PASTON,II,80.279.8049

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I pray your maisterchep to know that vn Fryday in the afftyr-none I
spak wyth my lord of Norwiche in hese chamber more than +te space of j
owre , PASTON,II,80.279.8050

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there I dede to hym myn erand that ye comaundyd me for to a do to
Chalanches , PASTON,II,80.279.8051

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and when my lord wost that ye were to London he was right sory that he
had not a spoke wyth yow or that ye reden . PASTON,II,80.279.8052

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He told me that he had iij letters fro my lord of Norffolk the day
before . Alle I wot wel were they not for yowre mater of Charlys Nowell
. PASTON,II,80.279.8053

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Aftyre that he had told me of these letteris he askid me how ye dede .
PASTON,II,80.279.8054

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I sayde wel , PASTON,II,80.279.8055

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I trostid to my lord of Norffolkes lordchep and ritewesnesse that
he wold see that Charles shuld be scharply correctyd for hese trespasse
and mysrewle , PASTON,II,80.279.8056

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
or ellis the jentelmen of the shire must to-giddyre purvey a-nodyre
<P_II,81> meane ; PASTON,II,81.279.8057

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid it wold non odyrewyse be , PASTON,II,81.279.8058

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but if he had spoke wyth yow or ye redyn to London he hopid be your
avys he shuld a perveyd a meane to a set that in correction , and also
the trobyl for the maner of Brayston , PASTON,II,81.279.8059

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for that was cause of all . PASTON,II,81.279.8060

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
For he seide he had spoke wyth my Lord Skales , PASTON,II,81.279.8061

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he is wel disposid to yow and vn the best wyse ,
PASTON,II,81.279.8062

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wol do $for yow that he can , so that ye wold for-sake Danyell .
PASTON,II,81.279.8063

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
This was seyde in a diswere , savyng he told me he must <em> ... </em>
pleayne . PASTON,II,81.279.8064

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He told me many more thyngges and tales . PASTON,II,81.279.8065

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow of your $maisterchep {TEXT:maistechep} hold me excusid that
I wryte hem $not , PASTON,II,81.279.8066

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but they were not alle of gret substauns , &c . PASTON,II,81.279.8067

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I had gret cher : PASTON,II,81.279.8068

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
he comaunddid me to be had into the seler and for to drynk wyne and ale
bothe , PASTON,II,81.279.8069

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I had , and goode chere . PASTON,II,81.279.8070

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My mastras $recomaundith {TEXT:recomdith} her to yow
PASTON,II,81.279.8071

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and pray yow that ye wol do the cost vn my Mastras Margery for to do
make her a new gyrdyl a-yens Witsontyde , PASTON,II,81.279.8072

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for she shal non have , my mastras seith , till she hath nede ;
PASTON,II,81.279.8073

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and my mastras prayith yow to send her tydyngges as hastely as ye may
how ye do in your maters . PASTON,II,81.279.8074

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trenyte` have yow in hese kepyng . PASTON,II,81.279.8075

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_279:M4:1452:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wrete at Norwiche the xiiij day of Maij . Be your seruaunt John Osbern
PASTON,II,81.279.8076

<Q_PAS_A_1450S_T_WCOTYNG> <L_PASTON_280> <A_WILLIAM_COTYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,81>

{ED:488._FROM_WILLIAM_COTYNG_1449-53,_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To +te right reuerent ser and my most worshipful maister , my
Maister John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,81.280.8077

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right reuerent and my most worshipful maister , I recomaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,81.280.8078

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please it yow to wete that +te man whiche I wolde haue hadde to a be
youre fermour at Snaillewelle hath tolde me that he will not therof ,
PASTON,II,81.280.8079

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this he makith his excuse : PASTON,II,81.280.8080

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he seythe that he shall dwelle with his wyffes fader and fynden hym for
his good as longe as he levyth , PASTON,II,81.280.8081

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he will no <P_II,82> forther medill in +te werde .
PASTON,II,82.280.8082

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I fele well by hym that he hath inquered of +te maner ,
PASTON,II,82.280.8083

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he coude telle me well that olde Briggeman aught my maister youre
fader , whom God assoile , moche good , and how that he hadde al that
was ther whanne Briggeman was ded , and that this Briggeman owith yow
moche good at this tyme . PASTON,II,82.280.8084

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I answered therto , PASTON,II,82.280.8085

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as for olde Briggeman I seide that it was his will that my maister
shulde haue his good , be-cause he was a bonde-man and hadde no childer
; PASTON,II,82.280.8086

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as for this Briggeman I seide that he hath bought a faire place
sithe he was youre fermour , and payed therfor . PASTON,II,82.280.8087

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But for this I kan not turne hym . Wherfor and it like yow to sende to
me a bille of +te value of +te maner , I shall inquere if ony other may
happe to be gete and sende yow worde therof . PASTON,II,82.280.8088

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in this and what ye will comaunde me ellys I shall do my parte , by
+te grace of Oure Lord , who ever haue yow in his kepyng ,
PASTON,II,82.280.8089

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
amen . PASTON,II,82.280.8090

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at Cambrigge +te Sunday nexte before +te fest of Seynt George .
PASTON,II,82.280.8091

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maister your brother recomaundeth hym to yow . PASTON,II,82.280.8092

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As me semyth he is in right febill hele . PASTON,II,82.280.8093

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He will not telle me qwy , save he seyth he compleyned onys and hadde
no remedy , PASTON,II,82.280.8094

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor he seythe he shall suffer for a seoson .
PASTON,II,82.280.8095

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forsothe I suppose he is not intreted as he aught to be .
PASTON,II,82.280.8096

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_280:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre seruaunt and bedeman W. Cotyng PASTON,II,82.280.8097

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_281> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,84>

{ED:490._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1453,_17_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To our right trusty and intierly welbeloued John Paston ,
esquyer . </font> PASTON,II,84.281.8098

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and right intierly welbeloued , we grete you hertly wele .
PASTON,II,84.281.8099

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And it is so , as ye know wele your-self , we haf and long tyme haf had
the seruice of Thomas Denyes , by contynuaunce wherof we wend to haf
had his attendaunce at oure lust . PASTON,II,84.281.8100

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And neuer thelesse we haf so streitly $examynid his demenyng that we
fele and pleynly conceyve that the love and effeccion which he hath to
a gentilwoman not ferre from yow , and which ye be prevy to as we
suppose , causith hym alwey to desire toward your cuntre` rather than
toward suych ocupacion as is behovefull to vs . PASTON,II,84.281.8101

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
We write therfore to yow , prayng you hertly as ye love vs that it like
you to do that labour at our instaunce , be suych $mene as your wisdam
can seme , to meve that gentilwoman in our behalf for the wele of this
mater , vndirtakyng for vs that we wole shew our bounte` to thaym bothe
if it plese hir that this mater take effect , so that be reason she
shall haf cause to take it in gree . PASTON,II,84.281.8102

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And if the comyng thider of our persone self shuld be to plesir of hir
, we wole not leve our labour in that ; wherfore we pray you that ye
wole do your part heryn as ye wole we do for yow in tyme comyng , and
that ye se vs in hast . PASTON,II,84.281.8103

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
The Holy Trinite` kepe yow . PASTON,II,84.281.8104

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Weuenho the xvij day of May . PASTON,II,84.281.8105

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
The Erle of Oxenford PASTON,II,84.281.8106

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_281:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,84.281.8107

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_282> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,85>

{ED:491._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1454,_20_MARCH;_CONCLUSION_LATER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right wurshipfull Maister John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,85.282.8108

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right wurshipfull and myn especiall good maister , I recomaund me to
you with all seruice and prayer to my power . PASTON,II,85.282.8109

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And like it you to wete that how be a ful straunge acte is passid agayn
me in the Higher Hous before the lordis , wherof I send you a copie ,
neuerthelesse I hope to God that it shal not passe in the Comoun Hous ;
PASTON,II,85.282.8110

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but me is be-falle the most sorwfull infortune that euer pouer man had
, standyng in suych case as I do , PASTON,II,85.282.8111

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for my lordis the Cardenale and of Oxenford haf imprisoned my wif in
the countour , PASTON,II,85.282.8112

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and how thei shal guyde hir forth God knowith . Which standith to nygh
myn hert , if Goddis wille were , PASTON,II,85.282.8113

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but wele I know that by thes vengeable malices don to hir and me thei
wole {ED:not} be content , PASTON,II,85.282.8114

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for Ingham lithe beside that to take awey my wyues doughter out of
Westminster to make an end of my wif if he can , and also to arest my
seruauntz , that I drede that she nor I shal haf no creature to attend
vs ne help vs ; PASTON,II,85.282.8115

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and suych malice haf I neuer herd of herbeforn . PASTON,II,85.282.8116

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And it is told me that beside that thei wole dispoil if ony good thei
can fynde of myn in Norwich or Norffolk , and imprisone my $seruauntz
there . Wherfore I lowly beseche your maistership for Our Lordis mercy
that ye vouchsauff to socour theym in this necessite` , and if ony
entree be made or shuld be made vpon myn $wifes place in Norwich that
ye vouchsauff to socour my seruauntz and do ther-jnne aftir your wisdam
, for Cristis love and seynt charite` . PASTON,II,85.282.8117

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Beside this a frend and $kynnesman of myn , oon Robert Clement of
Betele` , hath writen to me that he is arestid and like to be
imprisoned bi a writte of dette take agayn hym vpon an obligacion of c
li. in which he and I and other wer bounde to my lord of Oxenford xiiij
yeer agone , wherof <P_II,86> I haf many acquitaunces . Wherfore I pray
your good maistership to send to the shirreve that my seid kynnesman
may ben easid and no retourne made agayn hym , but that he may answer
the next tyme bi attourney ; PASTON,II,86.282.8118

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for truly that writte was take oute in the end of the terme aftir I was
arestid , and aftir it was aperid to . PASTON,II,86.282.8119

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray your maistership for Goddis sake to be not displesid ne wery to
do for me in these maters of your charite` , PASTON,II,86.282.8120

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I had leuer gif the said Robert suych good , litell if it be , as I
haf than he wer vndone for me or ony man ellis that euer ded for me ;
PASTON,II,86.282.8121

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I hope , if God vouchsaf that the mater may come to reson , to sauf
hym harmles , and all other with Goddis mercy , euer prayng you of your
maistership and socour , for Goddis love , who euer kepe you for his
mercy . PASTON,II,86.282.8122

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in Flete the Wednesday the second weke of Lent .
PASTON,II,86.282.8123

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
More-ouer , in augmentyng of my sorwe , I wend my wif shuld a dyed sith
, PASTON,II,86.282.8124

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for aftir she was arestid she laboured of hir child that she is
with-all , waityng either to dye or be delyuered ,
PASTON,II,86.282.8125

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and she hath not gon viij wekis quykke . PASTON,II,86.282.8126

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
What shal be-falle Almighti God knowith PASTON,II,86.282.8127

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and shal dispose mercifully . PASTON,II,86.282.8128

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Aftirward my wif was sumdele easid bi the labour of the Wardeyn of
Flete , PASTON,II,86.282.8129

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for the cursid Cardenale had sent hir to Neugate .
PASTON,II,86.282.8130

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God forgif his sowle . PASTON,II,86.282.8131

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nou she is take to baile til Tuesday . PASTON,II,86.282.8132

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Cardenale is dede PASTON,II,86.282.8133

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_282:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and the Kyng is relevid . PASTON,II,86.282.8134

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_283> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,88>

{ED:492._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1454,_8_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,88.283.8135

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right reuerend and wurshipfull ser , myn especiall good maister , I
recomaund me to you . PASTON,II,88.283.8136

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for as moch as aduersite` and prosperite` bothe ly in the
disposicion of o man above , I thank God , PASTON,II,88.283.8137

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and late you wete that I stand yet in as greet troble as {in}_P euer I
dede , or gretter ; PASTON,II,88.283.8138

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
prayng you euer to be my good maister and to contynue your benyvolens ,
as I am euer bounde to you . PASTON,II,88.283.8139

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Myn hevynes is sum-what incresid for a fals harlot , sauf your reuerens
, PASTON,II,88.283.8140

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
one James Cook , a seruaunt of myn , falsly and traitourously is hired
bi Watte Ingham PASTON,II,88.283.8141

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and hath accused and diffamed me and my wif of settyng vp billes agayn
lordis , that , Almyghti God I take to record , I not am ne neuer was
gilty therof . PASTON,II,88.283.8142

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But the same theef and Asshcote han made an $appoyntement to come and
robbe me of suych littel goodis of myn as thei can gete in Norffolk or
Norwich ; wherfore I beseche your maistership for charite` of your help
and socour to my seruauntz if such case falle . PASTON,II,88.283.8143

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For I <P_II,89> trow this is a troble that neuer man suffrid non like
in such case , PASTON,II,89.283.8144

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and therfore , gentill ser , as God hath indued you of myght and power
to socour suych troubles , shew your bounte` to me in this nede , and
that for Goddis love , who Almighti preserve you .
PASTON,II,89.283.8145

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in Flete the viij day of Aprill . PASTON,II,89.283.8146

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your wofull seruaunt Denyes PASTON,II,89.283.8147

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The said Asshcote can counterfete my hand , PASTON,II,89.283.8148

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and therfore I drede he wole stele by sum fals letters suych as he
myght gete . PASTON,II,89.283.8149

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_283:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I haf wretyn to my seruauntz ther-aftir . PASTON,II,89.283.8150

<Q_PAS_A_1454?_T_JCLOPTON> <L_PASTON_284> <A_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,89>

{ED:493._FROM_JOHN_CLOPTON_PERHAPS_ABOUT_1454;_IF_1454,_12_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to ryth reuerent ser and myn good mayster John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,89.284.8151

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryth wurthy and wurchypfull syr and myn ryth good maystyr , I
recomaunde me on-to you , thankyng you euermore of youre gret
jentylness and good maystyrhod shewyd on-to me at all tymys , and
specyally now , to myn herthys ease , qwyche on my part can nowt be
rewardyd , PASTON,II,89.284.8152

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but myn sympyll seruice is euyr redy at youre comaundement .
PASTON,II,89.284.8153

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ferthemore , as for +te matyr +tat ye wete of , I have laboryd so to
myn fadyr +tat youre entent as for +te joinitour xal be fulfellyd ;
PASTON,II,89.284.8154

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and syr I besheche you , sethyn +tat I do myn part to fullefelle youre
wyll , +tat ye wolle shew me youre good maystyrhod in here chambyr , as
myn full trust js , jn so moche +tat jt xall nowth hurthe you nor non
of youris , and +te profite there-of xal be on-to +te avayle of myn
maystress youre suster and to me , and to non odyr creature .
PASTON,II,89.284.8155

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And also myn maystress youre modyr xall nouth be charchyd wyth here
bourd aftyr +te day of +te mariage , but I to discharge here of here
persone , PASTON,II,89.284.8156

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and to ease me +tat hat here chambyr may be non contradiccion .
PASTON,II,89.284.8157

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And syr , I am redy and alwey wolle to parforme +tat I have seyd onto
you , &c . PASTON,II,89.284.8158

<P_II,90>

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ferthemore , lykyd you to wete I was a Thursday last passyd at
Cavendyche to delyvere an astate to Wentworth in +te londe +tat was myn
brothyr Cavendyche , as I tolde you wan I was last wyth you ,
PASTON,II,90.284.8159

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there I spak wyth Crane ; PASTON,II,90.284.8160

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he be-sowthe me +tat I wolde sende ouyr to myn maystress youre
modyr for his excuse , PASTON,II,90.284.8161

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he myth nowth be wyth here at this tyme , PASTON,II,90.284.8162

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but on +te Satyrday j {ED:n} Esterne wyke he wolle nouth fayle to be
wyth here . PASTON,II,90.284.8163

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
So he counsellyd me +tat I and myn brothyr Denston xulde mete wyth hym
there , PASTON,II,90.284.8164

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so wyth-oute youre better auyse I and myn brothyr purpose vs to be
wyth you there at +tat tyme ; PASTON,II,90.284.8165

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for +te sonnere +te levyr me , PASTON,II,90.284.8166

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore as to myn conceythe +te dayys be waxyn wondyrly longe jn a scorte
tyme . Qwerefore I besheche you sende me youre auyse how ye wolle have
me rewlyd , &c . PASTON,II,90.284.8167

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nomo I wrythe to you at +tis present tyme , but be-schechyng you to
recomaunde jn +te lowlyest wyse . PASTON,II,90.284.8168

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +te Trinite` preserve you body and sowle . PASTON,II,90.284.8169

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn wyth myn chauncery hand in ryth gret haste on +te Fryday be-forn
Palmesoneday . PASTON,II,90.284.8170

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_284:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre John Clopton PASTON,II,90.284.8171

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_285> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,90>

{ED:494._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1454,_3_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,90.285.8172

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right reuerent and wurshipfull ser and myn especiall good maister , I
recomaund me to you . PASTON,II,90.285.8173

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for as moche as oon Lord aboue giffeth and takith as hym plesith ,
I thank his grace of euery thyng ; PASTON,II,90.285.8174

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and for the bounte' that ye shew to me in this troble I haf no spirite
to thank you as I shuld . PASTON,II,90.285.8175

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , as for certeyn evidence touchyng your place in Seint Andrues
parissh , my wif tellith me that she lefft thaym in a chest at Ovyes
shette ; PASTON,II,90.285.8176

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
the key therof she hath sent now to Ovy also . PASTON,II,90.285.8177

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for more evidence , sum is in the kepyng of Frere John Mendham ,
wherto I beseche your maistership that ye wole se for the sauf and
secreet kepyng therof . PASTON,II,90.285.8178

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God wote my wif delyuered all , myn vnwetyng ; PASTON,II,90.285.8179

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
euer therfore I doute , trustyng with such hope as is be-lefft me to
the best , with Goddes grace . PASTON,II,90.285.8180

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Other evidence of myn is at Folsham , I wote not with whome .
PASTON,II,90.285.8181

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I thank God of my conyng , PASTON,II,90.285.8182

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but as sone as I may know I shal write to you . Wherfore , <P_II,91>
sith it is thus , I beseche your maistership disdeigne not , but for
Our Lordes love ye vouchsauf to take it to you or to se that it be sauf
, if it plese you . And that ye wole send for John Maile ,
PASTON,II,91.285.8183

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I conceyve hym right feithfull to me , PASTON,II,91.285.8184

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I am enfourmed that he is gretly manasid for me ; and that ye
vouchsauf to do put hym in comfort that I lese not his good wille , and
that ye shew hym your good maistership and fauour that he be holpen and
not hurt for me . PASTON,II,91.285.8185

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ferthermore , I wrote to you for such smal thynges as I had leid to
plegge to you for such good as that I borwid of you . Wheryn I beseche
your maistership that if my frendes pay you accordyng to my writyng ,
that ye than vouchsaf to do the said plegges be sent hider to me by
such conduyte as your wisdam like to avise , and that they myght be
here by iiij=to= die of the xv=cim= of Ester , PASTON,II,91.285.8186

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for than is my grettest jouparte` touchyng myn jmprisonement ;
PASTON,II,91.285.8187

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for sith myn enmyes coude not avail to send me to the castel of Bristow
, which was their purpose whan thei vndirstood the disposicion of the
Comoun Hous agayn their billes , euer sith they make a prevy labour to
haf me remevid , PASTON,II,91.285.8188

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I wote not whedir , ne wethir that tyme I shal be sent to the
Kynges Benche and abide ther , or remittid hider agayn .
PASTON,II,91.285.8189

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse , jf I haf releve of such pouer godes as shuld be myn by
resoun , than I hope to do better and sumwhat to aquyte , wherby I hope
to put my frendes in gretter corage to do for me .
PASTON,II,91.285.8190

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And if I haf no releve than can I nomore , but all refere to God as I
do daily . Wherfore , if ye be not paied I pray you to councell my said
frendes to send me such mony as thei may gete of myn agayn that day ,
euer your maistership and wisdam seyng to the conduyte therof .
PASTON,II,91.285.8191

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
More-ouer I doute lest that Richard Davy of his vntrouth enfourme myn
enmys wher such pouer thyng as I haf is , to that jntent that thei may
riffel and dispoil all ; wherof if such case hapne I can no ferther ,
PASTON,II,91.285.8192

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but I besech your help in euery thyng . PASTON,II,91.285.8193

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It is yours all : PASTON,II,91.285.8194

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ther is a dede of gifft therof to you among myn evidence .
PASTON,II,91.285.8195

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As ye vouchsauff to do or do to be done in euery thyng I holde me
content . PASTON,II,91.285.8196

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghti God preserve you . PASTON,II,91.285.8197

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn in non hertis ease at Flete the iij day of Maij .
PASTON,II,91.285.8198

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_285:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Woful Denyes PASTON,II,91.285.8199

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_286> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,92>

{ED:495._FROM_THOMAS_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1454,_17_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right and wel be-loued frend John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,92.286.8200

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you wel .
PASTON,II,92.286.8201

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for as mych as I haue vndirstande +tat +ge haue do take a distresse
of certayn bestes up-on certayn land which I stande infeffed in in +te
town of Pagraue , for what cause I knowe not , wherfor I pray you +tat
+ge wyll make deliuerance ageyn of the said bestes ;
PASTON,II,92.286.8202

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and if any thing +ge can axe be dute` of right , setteth a day
PASTON,II,92.286.8203

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and lete your euydences and right be shewed , PASTON,II,92.286.8204

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and I shal assigne conceill of myn to be +tere to se it .
PASTON,II,92.286.8205

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And all +tat reson or lawe wyll I wyll be right glad +ge haue ,
PASTON,II,92.286.8206

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and other-wise I trowe +ge wold not desire . PASTON,II,92.286.8207

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And if +ge wyll do thus I wyll be wel paied , PASTON,II,92.286.8208

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and elles +ge constreyne me to pourueye other-wise as lawe may gyde me
. PASTON,II,92.286.8209

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Oure Lord haue you in gouernance . PASTON,II,92.286.8210

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Walsyngham the xvij day of May . PASTON,II,92.286.8211

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_286:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Youre frend , The Lord Scales PASTON,II,92.286.8212

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_287> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,92>

{ED:496._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1454,_8_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,92.287.8213

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull ser and my gode maister , after dewe recommendacion wyth
alle my trew seruyce precedyng lyke you wete that when it fortune that
William Cole wolle or desyre comyn and hafe your gode avice yn the
mater ye wote off that ye wolle hald your hand well yn the seyd mater .
PASTON,II,92.287.8214

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As to nouuelteez , &c. , the Prince shall be create at Wyndesouere
vppon <P_II,93> Pentecost Sonday , the Chaunceller , the Duc of
Bokyngham , and manye othyrs lordes off astate present wyth the Quene .
PASTON,II,93.287.8215

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As to my lord York , he abydyth aboute York tille Corpus Crist feste be
passed , PASTON,II,93.287.8216

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and wyth grete worshyp ys there resseyved . PASTON,II,93.287.8217

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And certeyn justices , Prysot , Byngham , Portyngton , and &c. be
thedre for execucion of justice vpon such as hafe offended yn cause
criminall . PASTON,II,93.287.8218

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It ys seyd the Duc of Exceter ys here couuertlye .
PASTON,II,93.287.8219

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God sende hym gode councell hereafter . PASTON,II,93.287.8220

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the Pryvee Sele ys examyned how and yn $whate maner and by whate
autorite` prevye selys passed forth in that behalf , whych ys full
jnnocent and ryght clere yn that mater , as it ys well knowen .
PASTON,II,93.287.8221

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Frenshmen hafe be afore the Isles of Gersey and Gerneysey , and a
grete navey of hem , PASTON,II,93.287.8222

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and v=c= be taken and sleyn of hem by men of the seyd trew jsles , &c .
PASTON,II,93.287.8223

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser Emond Mulso ys com from the Duc of Burgoyne ; PASTON,II,93.287.8224

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyth , by hys seruauntes rapport , that he wolle not discharge
the godes of the marchauntes of thys land but so be that justice be don
vppon the Lord Bonevile , or ell that he be sent to hym to do justice
hym-sylf as he hath deserued , or satisfaccion be made to the value .
PASTON,II,93.287.8225

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your mater is enseled as of the thyng ye wote of .
PASTON,II,93.287.8226

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I can no more for haste and lak of leyser , but Our Lord kepe yow .
PASTON,II,93.287.8227

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt hastly viij day of June . PASTON,II,93.287.8228

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I sende a lettre to Maister Berney to lete you see for the gouuernaunce
yn Yorkshyre . PASTON,II,93.287.8229

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_287:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Bote-nere PASTON,II,93.287.8230

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_288> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,94>

{ED:498._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1454,_5_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my gode maister John Paston , escuire , in Norwich ; and yn
hys absence to John Berney at Castre , squyere . </font>
PASTON,II,94.288.8231

<P_II,95>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull sers , I recomaund me to yow . PASTON,II,95.288.8232

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Lyke yow wete that as to the warauntes and copies that ye remembred to
be gheten owt , it ys laboured for , &c . PASTON,II,95.288.8233

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as to the assise , it shall hald at Norwych the Monday next com
fortendayes . PASTON,II,95.288.8234

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of York , the Lord Cromewell , and othyr lordys of the North
that were wyth my seyd Lord York comen hedre by Monday next , as it ys
credybly seyd . PASTON,II,95.288.8235

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The lordes that be appoynted to kepe the see maken hem redye in alle
haste ; and the Tresourere , also the Lord Wyltshyre , for the west
coost . PASTON,II,95.288.8236

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And a stately vessell , only for the werre , ys made new at Brystow by
the mayr called Sturmyn ; PASTON,II,95.288.8237

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and the seyd toune , with the west coostes , wolle do her part and they
may be supported or fauoured . PASTON,II,95.288.8238

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Mastere Pownynges hath day tille the next terme by a remayndre .
PASTON,II,95.288.8239

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Manye a gode man ys hert he hath . PASTON,II,95.288.8240

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God comfort hym in ryght . PASTON,II,95.288.8241

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And justice ys don dayly vppon thevys and malefactours ,
PASTON,II,95.288.8242

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and peple be glad that justice may procede . PASTON,II,95.288.8243

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Lord Bourcher hath a gode renomee of hys wyse demenyng at Calix ,
PASTON,II,95.288.8244

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but he ys not yhyt comen . PASTON,II,95.288.8245

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The soudeours be more temperat then they were . PASTON,II,95.288.8246

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Not ell for lak of leyser , but Our Lord kepe you .
PASTON,II,95.288.8247

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt at L. the v day of Jullet . PASTON,II,95.288.8248

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Gressam qwytes hym well yn your erandys doyng to me .
PASTON,II,95.288.8249

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_288:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your W. Botenere PASTON,II,95.288.8250

<Q_PAS_A_1450S_T_ECLERE> <L_PASTON_289> <A_ELIZABETH_CLERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,96>

{ED:500._FROM_ELISABETH_CLERE_PROBABLY_BEFORE_1460,_25_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my worchepful cosyn John Paston be +tis lettre delyuered in
hast . </font> PASTON,II,96.289.8251

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trusty and weelbelovyd cosyn , I comaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,96.289.8252

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Liketh it yow to wete +tat +ter hath be purchased of many sundry men of
old tyme a certeyn <P_II,97> pasture and whynground conteynyng be
estimacion an C=a= acres called N , lying in +te towne of N and longyng
to +te manere of +te same towne , except +tat certeyn persones have
withinne +te same pasture iiij acres in sundry smale parcelles +te
wheche arn ny almost ouer growe with whynnes at +tis daye , not
withstondyng +tei have for euery half acre a netes pasture goyng at
large al somere in +te seid pasture , payand for +te heerdyng of a best
iiij d . PASTON,II,97.289.8253

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And in +te same pasture I do pasture my bestys and certeyn bestys +tat
I have take to takke and come not in +te comoun pasture of +te seid
towne for gret ese of my tenauntes . PASTON,II,97.289.8254

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now +tei seyn +tat it hath be vsed of old tyme +tat +te comoun
heerde of +te seide towne schuld bryng into +te seid pasture his
beestys on Lammesse Day to pasturen , PASTON,II,97.289.8255

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and summe men seyn +tat he schuld pasturen +tere onys in a moneth after
+tat day , PASTON,II,97.289.8256

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and summe seyn onys in a fourtnyght , PASTON,II,97.289.8257

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and summe seyn onys in a weke , PASTON,II,97.289.8258

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and summe seyn twyes or thries in a weke , PASTON,II,97.289.8259

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and summe seyn as oftyn as +te heerde will ; so +tat be +tis mene aftyr
Lammesse I must put a-wey my takke and may not kepe +tere myn owen
bestys but if I schuld lese hem for defawt of mete ,
PASTON,II,97.289.8260

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for +te comoun bestys schulde ouer charge +te seide pasture .
PASTON,II,97.289.8261

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And fro +tat tyme tyl Candelmesse thei seyn +tat +tei wil kepe +teron
here schepe . Wherfore I prey yow , cosyn , if ye vowche safe +tat +tis
matere may be comounde of among lerned men , +tat I may be in very
certeynte` how I may best be rewled in +tis mateer whan +tat ye come
hoom , PASTON,II,97.289.8262

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as I am enfoormed thei will sette +teron al holly to-gederys to
kepe +tat comoun fro Lammesse Day forth now next folwyng .
PASTON,II,97.289.8263

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also , cosyn , my cosyn youre moder preith yow to thynk on Horwellebery
. PASTON,II,97.289.8264

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nomore I write to yow at +tis tyme , but +te Holy Gost haue yow in his
kepyng . PASTON,II,97.289.8265

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn in hast +te xxv day of Maij . PASTON,II,97.289.8266

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cosyn , my cosyn youre moder preith yow to <em> ... </em>
PASTON,II,97.289.8267

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_289:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Be youre cosyn Elisabeth C. PASTON,II,97.289.8268

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_EDEVERE> <L_PASTON_290> <A_ELIZABETH_DE_VERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1410?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,98>

{ED:501._ELIZABETH_DE_VERE,_COUNTESS_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1454,_7_A
UGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> Right trusty and welbeloued Jon Paston , esquier . </font>
PASTON,II,98.290.8269

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and intierly welbelouyd , I grete you wele , prayng you as
I specially trust you that ye wole be good frend to James Arblaster in
his mater touchyng the maner of Smalbergh , as I wote wele ye haf euer
be to hym ryght especiall frend ; PASTON,II,98.290.8270

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and thogh it so be that the sayd James had gret trobles , losses , and
aduersite` herbeforn , neuerthelesse he shall not be so bare of frendys
ner goodys but that I wole se hym holpyn , with the mercy of God . In
performmyng wher-of the berer of this shal enfourme you of myn jnten
{ED:t} and disposicion more largely than I wole put in wrytyng .
PASTON,II,98.290.8271

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And the Trinite` haue you in hys kepyng . PASTON,II,98.290.8272

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Wefnow the vij day of August . PASTON,II,98.290.8273

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_290:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Elizabeth Ver , Countes of Oxenford PASTON,II,98.290.8274

<Q_PAS_C_1450S?_T_EDEVERE> <L_PASTON_291> <A_ELIZABETH_DE_VERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1410?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,98>

{ED:502._FROM_THE_COUNTESS_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1461,_1_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To John Paston , sqwyer , dwellyng jn Norwich . </font>
PASTON,II,98.291.8275

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Ryght entierly welbeloued , I grete yow well PASTON,II,98.291.8276

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
and pray yow that ye woll be good frende vn-to Arblaster in suche
matiers as {in}_P he shal $enfourme yow , PASTON,II,98.291.8277

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
and I thanke yow for the good frendship that ye haue shewed to hym .
PASTON,II,98.291.8278

<P_II,99>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
And I sent a letter to Margaret Gurnay by-fore Cristemesse of certeyn
langage that I herd wich plesed me nowght , PASTON,II,99.291.8279

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
and so I prayed my lord to gif me leve to wrytte to hir ;
PASTON,II,99.291.8280

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
and therfore , and ye here any thyng , answere as my trust is in yow .
PASTON,II,99.291.8281

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Right entierly welbeloued , the Holy Gost haue yow in his kepyng .
PASTON,II,99.291.8282

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn in hast the first daij of Februarij . PASTON,II,99.291.8283

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,99.291.8284

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_291:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Elyzabeth de Veer PASTON,II,99.291.8285

<Q_PAS_C_1460S_T_EDEVERE> <L_PASTON_292> <A_ELIZABETH_DE_VERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1410?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,99>

{ED:503._FROM_THE_COUNTESS_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1466,_13_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right entierly welbeloued John Paston of Norwich , sqwyer
. </font> PASTON,II,99.292.8286

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Right entierly welbeloued , I grete yow well , thankyng yow of the gret
jentylnesse that ye haue shewed vn-to my right welbeloued James
Arblaster , prayng yow of contynuaunse ; PASTON,II,99.292.8287

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
and if ther be any thyng that I may doo for yow or any of yowres , here
or in any othere place , I pray yow let me wete PASTON,II,99.292.8288

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
and I shall be redy to do it , with the grace of God , ho haue yow in
his kepyng . PASTON,II,99.292.8289

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And I pray yow to be frendly vn-to my right welbeloued Agneys Arblaster
, wich is to me gret plesiere and hertes ease and ye so be .
PASTON,II,99.292.8290

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Weuenho the xiij=o= daij of Aprill . PASTON,II,99.292.8291

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,99.292.8292

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:1410?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_292:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Elyzabeth PASTON,II,99.292.8293

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_RICHARDY> <L_PASTON_293> <A_RICHARD_OF_YORK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1411> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,99>

{ED:504._FROM_RICHARD_DUKE_OF_YORK_PROBABLY_1454,_19_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To our right trusty and welbeloued John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,99.293.8294

<P_II,100>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of York PASTON,II,100.293.8295

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued , we grete yow hertily wel .
PASTON,II,100.293.8296

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And of your beniuolence , aide , and tendre loue by yow , at
th'instance and at +te reuerence of vs , to our right trusty and
welbeloued in God the Priour and Comuent of the hows of Our Lady of
Walsingham , of our patronage , in suche materes as they had adoo for
certain lyvelood by thaim claymed to belonge vnto +te said hows ,
fauorably and tendrely shewd , as hertily as we can we thank yow
PASTON,II,100.293.8297

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and desire and pray yow of your good continuance ; and as fer as right
lawe and good conscience wol to haue in fauorable recommendacion suche
personnes as been or shal bee committed to take possession and saisine
, in the name and to +te vse of our ful worshipful nepueu th'Erl of
Warrewic , in and of +te manoirs and lordeships of $Boulles and
Walcotes , with +t'appertenances , in Litel Snoring in +te countee of
Norffolk , as our grete trust is vnto yow . PASTON,II,100.293.8298

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And God haue yow in his keping . PASTON,II,100.293.8299

AUTHOR:RICHARD_OF_YORK:MALE:_:1411:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_293:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yeven vndre our signet at our Castel of Sandhall +te xix=e= day of
August . PASTON,II,100.293.8300

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_RNEVILLE> <L_PASTON_294> <A_RICHARD_NEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1428> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,100>

{ED:505._FROM_RICHARD_EARL_OF_WARWICK_PROBABLY_1454,_23_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshipfull and my right trusty frende John Paston ,
squyer . </font> PASTON,II,100.294.8301

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshipfull and my ryght trusty and welbeloued frende , I grete you
well . PASTON,II,100.294.8302

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for asmuch as I haue purchased of the worshipfull and my welbeloued
frende Priour of Walsyngham ij maners in Lityl Snoryng , with
th'appertenantz , in the counte` of Norffolk , which maners be cleped
Bowles and Walcotes , I desir and hertily praye yow that ye woll shewe
to me and my feoffe`z in my name your good will and fauour so that I
may by your frendship the more peasably reioy my forsaid purchase .
PASTON,II,100.294.8303

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And more ouer I praye you to yeve credens in this mater to my
welbeloued <P_II,101> chapellayn Ser John Suthwell , berer of thes my
letter , and in the same mater to be my feithfull frende as my gret
trust is in you ; wherin ye shall do to me a singuler pleaser and cause
me to bee to yow right good lord , which sumtyme shall be to you
available by the grace of God , who preserve you and sende you welfare
. PASTON,II,101.294.8304

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yoven vnder my signet at Midilham the xxiij day of August .
PASTON,II,101.294.8305

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Richard Erl of Warrewik PASTON,II,101.294.8306

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_294:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
R. Warrewyk PASTON,II,101.294.8307

<Q_PAS_A_1454?_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_295> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,101>

{ED:506._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PERHAPS_1454,_2_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,101.295.8308

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Aftyr dewe recomendacion wyth my simple seruice precedyng , please your
maistershyp to wete that as to such remembraunce that ye desyre me to
contynew forth to the vttermost , I shall wyth gode wille , so as my
maister wille licence me , as oft as I can , th'officer to hafe leyser
to be wyth me , PASTON,II,101.295.8309

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ye know well I can not do it alone , &c . PASTON,II,101.295.8310

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as ye of your pleaser wryte me or calle me Maister Worcestre
, I pray and requyre yow foryete that name of maistershyp ,
PASTON,II,101.295.8311

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I am not <P_II,102> amended by my maister of a ferthyng yn
certeynte` , but of wagys of housold in comune entaunt comme nows
plaira . PASTON,II,102.295.8312

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
By Worcestre or Botoner I hafe v s. yerly , all costys born , to help
pay for bonettys that I lose . PASTON,II,102.295.8313

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I told so my maister thys weke , PASTON,II,102.295.8314

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyd me yerstenday he wysshed me to hafe be a preest so I had be
disposed , to hafe gofe me a lyvyng by reson of a benefice , that
anothyr man most gefe it , as the Bysshop , but he wold .
PASTON,II,102.295.8315

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And so I endure inter egenos vt seruus ad aratrum .
PASTON,II,102.295.8316

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Foryefe me , PASTON,II,102.295.8317

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wryte to make yow laugh . PASTON,II,102.295.8318

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lord bryng my maistre yn a better mode for othyrs as for me .
PASTON,II,102.295.8319

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At Castre ij=d= day of September . PASTON,II,102.295.8320

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow displese not your seruaunt be so long ,
PASTON,II,102.295.8321

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for my maister lettet hym . PASTON,II,102.295.8322

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:39?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_295:M4:1454?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your W. Wyrcestre PASTON,II,102.295.8323

<Q_PAS_C_1454?_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_296> <A_THOMAS_HOWES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,102>

{ED:507._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_PERHAPS_1454,_2_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my maister John Paston , squier , be +tis delyuered . </font>
PASTON,II,102.296.8324

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshypfull ser , I recommaund me to yow . PASTON,II,102.296.8325

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And my maister hertly thankyth yow for the venyson that ye sent hym
from my lord of Oxford , PASTON,II,102.296.8326

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and prayth yow that he may be recommaunded to hys noble lordshyp .
PASTON,II,102.296.8327

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And God thank yow for your speciall remembraunce of my mater that ye
hafe it so tendyrly to hert , PASTON,II,102.296.8328

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ye may know weell the gode spede of that ys my wellfare and the
contrarye ys my vtter vndoyng . PASTON,II,102.296.8329

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I hafe sent to John Porter to wete verrayly how it standyth wyth hym ,
as ye shall wete the certeynte` thys weke . PASTON,II,102.296.8330

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As for the mater wryt to John Bokkyng , he hath rad your lettre
PASTON,II,102.296.8331

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and wille remembre your desyre and also of William Geney commyng yn
case he know of it rathyr then ye . PASTON,II,102.296.8332

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And my maistre herd the substaunce of your lettre red
PASTON,II,102.296.8333

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and lyked it <P_II,103> ri+gt well ; PASTON,II,103.296.8334

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as for the mater of Worcestre remembraunce he shall geve hys
attendaunce therto yn that {in}_P he can . PASTON,II,103.296.8335

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where ye calle hym maister , he ys displesed wyth that name ,
PASTON,II,103.296.8336

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he may spend v s. yerly more by the name of Worcestre or Botoner ,
and by hys maister not a ferthyng yn certeynte` .
PASTON,II,103.296.8337

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He prayth yow foryete it . PASTON,II,103.296.8338

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray God kepe yow . PASTON,II,103.296.8339

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt at Castre hastly ij=d= day of Septembere . PASTON,II,103.296.8340

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your oune T. Howes PASTON,II,103.296.8341

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33?
LETTER:PASTON_296:M4:1454?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , yn case Jankyn be hole , my lord of Norffolk hath graunted by
moyen of Robert Wyngfeld to be yn my seyd lord ys housold , as my
maister hath it by lettre from Wyngfeld . PASTON,II,103.296.8342

<Q_PAS_A_1454_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_297> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,103>

{ED:508._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1454,_OCTOBER-NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please youre maistirship to wete forasmych as the wryt directid to the
exchetour cam not tyl in the Vigil of Symond and Jude at viij of the
clocke at euyn , whyche coude in no wyse profit us that day ,
notwithstondyng we had a yeman of my lordys chambre and were at Cowhaw
, hauyng Bertylmev Elys wyth vs , and there was Long Bernard sytting to
<P_II,104> kepe a court . PASTON,II,104.297.8343

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And we at the firste Noy come in the court , PASTON,II,104.297.8344

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Bertylmev hauyng this termys to Bernard , seying , ' Ser ,
forasmyche as the Kyng hathe grauntyd be hese letteres patentys the
wardship wyth the profitys of the londys of T. Fastolf duryng hese
noun-age to you and T. H. , wherfor I am comyn as ther styward be ther
comandement upon there pocession to kep court and lete , whiche is of
old custum vsyd upon thys day ; wherfor I charge you be the vertu
here-of to seas and kepe nouthir court nor lete ,
PASTON,II,104.297.8345

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ye haue non autoryte` . ' PASTON,II,104.297.8346

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Quod Bernard , ' I wyll kepe bothe court and lete ,
PASTON,II,104.297.8347

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and ye shal non kepe here , PASTON,II,104.297.8348

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for there is no man hathe so gret autoryte` . ' PASTON,II,104.297.8349

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Than quod Bertylmeu , ' I shal sytte by you and take a reconysaunce as
ye do . ' PASTON,II,104.297.8350

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
' Nay ' , quod Bernard , ' I wyl suffre you to sytte but not to wryte .
' PASTON,II,104.297.8351

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
' Well ' , quod Bertylmev , ' thanne forsybly ye put vs from oure
pocession , whiche I doute not but $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} remembryd
you anothir day ' , &c . PASTON,II,104.297.8352

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
' But , seres , ' quod he , ' ye that be tenauntys to this manoyr , we
charge you that ye do nowthir seute nor seruise , no {ED:r} paye ony
rentys or fermys but to the vse of John Paston and T. ;
PASTON,II,104.297.8353

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fo {ED:r} and ye do ye shal paye it ageyn ; PASTON,II,104.297.8354

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as for on yeer past we haue sewyrte` of Skylly , whiche hathe
reseyuid it of you to there vse . ' PASTON,II,104.297.8355

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And thus we departid , PASTON,II,104.297.8356

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Bernard kept court and lete . PASTON,II,104.297.8357

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And there was Sere P. Wentworth and hise brothir , yong Hopton , yong
Brewse , yong Calthorp , wyth xxiiij horse ; PASTON,II,104.297.8358

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and we spoke wyth non of hem nore they wyth non of us ,
PASTON,II,104.297.8359

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for we wold not seke upen hem . PASTON,II,104.297.8360

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And we haue enteryd in all othir plasis undir this forme .
PASTON,II,104.297.8361

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wold we had had the wryte be tymes leuir than xx s. of myn owne ,
PASTON,II,104.297.8362

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but it farith thus in many othir materys , PASTON,II,104.297.8363

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God amende hem . PASTON,II,104.297.8364

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_297:M4:1454:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Memorandum to sende hom wyn and ij quart botelys .
PASTON,II,104.297.8365

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_298> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,104>

{ED:509._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1454,_11_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshypfull and my ryght welbelovyd cosyn John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,104.298.8366

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull and ryght welbelovyd cosyn , I comaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,104.298.8367

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Lyke yow to wete that y have resseyved a lettre at thys tyme from John
Bokkyng wyth a copy of the patent concernyng the wardeshyp that ye wote
off , <P_II,105> by whych y vnderstand that ye have both wrought and
holpen by your grete wysdom to bryng thys matier aboute , whych y
desyred your frendshyp and gode avice for the seurtee of the seyd
waarde ; and for expedicion of whych y thank you ry+gt hertlye and pray
you to contynew foorth your gode labours in the same yn such wyse as it
may be made sure yn all wyse , they it cost me the more of my gode .
PASTON,II,105.298.8368

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as it ys remembred me by the seyd lettres that y shuld labour
to ghete the seyd ward yn-to my gouuernaunce , truely y can not see how
y coude do it to be doon , PASTON,II,105.298.8369

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for y have none acqueyntaunce in that contree that y coude trust too ,
wythoute the shyreve myght be my tender frende in thys cause , or othyr
such as ye thynk best . Wherfor y pray you hertlye to take thys mater
tenderly to hert , and that ye lyke seke a moyen of such frendys as ye
can best avyse and may verrayly trust vppon to gyde thys mater yn such
wyse as myne entent myght be sped for the possession of it ;
PASTON,II,105.298.8370

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for now that y have go so ferre yn the matier y wold not it faylled for
no gode but it preved well and toke to a gode conclusion .
PASTON,II,105.298.8371

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as y have vnderstand late by certeyn well-willers to you
warde whych have meoved me that yn case the seyd warde myght be had ,
that ye desyre an alliaunce shulde take atwyx a doughter of yourys and
the seyd waard , of whych mocion y was ryght glad to hyre off and wylle
be ryght well-wyllyng and helpyng that your blode and myne myght
increse yn alliaunce . PASTON,II,105.298.8372

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And yff it please yow that by your wysdom and gode conduyt that ye
wolde help beere owte thys mater substaunciallie ayenst my partie
contrarie and eville willers that y myght have myne entent , I ensure
you ye and y shuld appoynt and accorde yn such wyse as ye shuld hald
you ryght well plesed both-2 for the encresyng of your lynage and also
of myne . PASTON,II,105.298.8373

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And y pray you be ware whom ye make of your counsaille and myne yn thys
mater , and that it may be well bore owte or ye com thens and yn a sure
wey . PASTON,II,105.298.8374

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And yff y had knowe rathyr of your entent it shuld hafe cost me more of
my gode before thys , to hafe com to a gode conclusion , whych y
promysse yhyt shall bee , and the mater take , by the fayth of my bodye
. PASTON,II,105.298.8375

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull and ryght welbelovyd cosyn , y pray God spede you yn thys
matier and sende you your gode desyrs . PASTON,II,105.298.8376

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Castre the xj day of Nouember A=o= xxxiij=o= R. H. vj .
PASTON,II,105.298.8377

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your cosyn John Fastolf PASTON,II,105.298.8378

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , cosyn , I pray yow when ye see tyme that my lord of Caunterbury
and my Lord Cromewell may be spoke wyth PASTON,II,105.298.8379

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:76?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_298:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for the godes of my Lord Bedford beyng yn dyuers men handz be compelled
to be brought ynne , as ye shall see more along of thys mater wyth the
wrytyngys that y have made mencion and left wyth John Bokkyng and
William Barkere . PASTON,II,105.298.8380

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_299> <A_THOMAS_HOWES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,106>

{ED:510._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_1454,_13_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the wurshepfull ser and my good maystyr John Paston at London
in haste . </font> PASTON,II,106.299.8381

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wurshepfull and reuerent ser and my good maistyr , I recomavnd me to
+gow in as delygent wyse as {in}_P on my part aperteineth .
PASTON,II,106.299.8382

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And please yow to wete that my maistyr was right well pleasyd wyth
youre feithefull labour in fulfellyng the patent for the warrd of A. B.
C. , PASTON,II,106.299.8383

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he wyll feithefully labour as ye haue avysed hym be wryting of John
Bookyng . PASTON,II,106.299.8384

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And putte my maistyr in more corage I meovyd to hym vpon myn hed that
encas {TEXT:be} the child were wyse that thanne it were a good maryage
be-twen my wyff youre doutir and hym ; PASTON,II,106.299.8385

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and , ser , my maistyr was glad when he herd that moyan , consetheryng
that youre doutyr is desendyd of hym be the modyr syde .
PASTON,II,106.299.8386

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , I haue enqweryd aftyr the seyd child ,
PASTON,II,106.299.8387

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and no dout of but he is lykly and of gret wyt , as I here be report of
sondre` personez . PASTON,II,106.299.8388

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And it is so , as I am credebly enformyd , that Jeffrey Boleyn maketh
gret labour for maryage of the seyd child to on of hese douterez .
PASTON,II,106.299.8389

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wold well to hym , but bettyr to yow . Wherfor that ye delygently
labour for expedecyon of this matere , that encas ye can fynde ony
moyan there to haue the seyd child , and we shal do feithefully oure
delygens in lyke wyse here , as ye avyse vs , &c .
PASTON,II,106.299.8390

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , as ye thynke wyth auyse of my Maistyr Yeleverton , Jenney ,
and otherez my maisterez counsell there , that the shereff may haue a
reward , and yef my seyd maisterez counsell thynke it be to don , that
thanne ye lyke to take an accyoun vpon an enteynt , wheche ye mvst wyth
them take vpon yow at this tyme in my maisterez absence ;
PASTON,II,106.299.8391

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for as ye do jn that matere he woll hold hym content ,
PASTON,II,106.299.8392

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore Wyllyam Barkere hathe an jnstruccyon of my maysterez jntent vpon
the same . PASTON,II,106.299.8393

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I send John Bookyng a copy of the panell wheche I shewed yow at
Castre , &c . PASTON,II,106.299.8394

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Jesu haue yow eternaly in hese mercyfull governaunce .
PASTON,II,106.299.8395

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Castre the Wednysday next aftyr Seynt Martyn A=o= xxxiij .
PASTON,II,106.299.8396

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_299:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
T. Howys PASTON,II,106.299.8397

<Q_PAS_C_1454_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_300> <A_THOMAS_HOWES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,107>

{ED:511._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_1454,_18_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
<font> To the wurshepfull and reuerent ser , my good maystir John
Paston , in all goodly haste . </font> PASTON,II,107.300.8398

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Reuerent and wurshepfull ser and my good maistyr , I recomavnd me to
yow in as louly wyse as {in}_P on my part aperteineth .
PASTON,II,107.300.8399

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And please yow to wete that my maistyr is fully purposed to sewe
ateynte , whereupon he wryteth a lettere directyd to yow and otherez ,
for the wheche I beseke yow to be my good maystyr in pursewyng the seyd
ateynte . PASTON,II,107.300.8400

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And also my maistyr is agreed what reward ye geve the shereff he
holdeth hym content ; wherfor that youre reward may be the largere so
he woll there-vpon returne the panell for the seyd ateynte .
PASTON,II,107.300.8401

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And thanne yef Jenney wold meove my lord of Norffolke that he wold be
my good lord , amyttyng me for hese chapeleyn , and Jhankyn Porter for
hese seruaunt , wheche is in hese chek roll , it shuld cause the matere
to haue the redyer expedecyon as well be the shereff as be the gret
jury . PASTON,II,107.300.8402

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And yef the processe may haue so redy sped that it myght be had be-fore
my Maystyr Yelwerton in this vaccacyon tyme , it were a gret covnfort ,
&c . PASTON,II,107.300.8403

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Beseking yow at the reuerence of God , and as euer my powere servyse
may be at youre comaundement , that ye effectualy laboure this matere
in the most spedfull wyse , as youre descrecyon , wyth Jenneyez avyse ,
thinketh most expedyent ; PASTON,II,107.300.8404

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
for I ferre gretly to be outlawed or the seyd processe shuld be brought
to a=l= conclucyon wythoute redy processe in the seyd ateynte .
PASTON,II,107.300.8405

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
And I here no sewere tydingez of a parlement ; PASTON,II,107.300.8406

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
but rathere thanne I shuld be outlawed I wold yeld my-self to preson ,
wheche shuld be myn vndoyng , and thanne to be wyth-oute remedy .
PASTON,II,107.300.8407

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
My refformacyon and counforte in eschewyng that lythe holly in youre
helpe and Jenneyez at this tyme , be-cause my maystyr hathe comytted
the governaunce of the seyd matere to yow PASTON,II,107.300.8408

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
and what expense it draweth he agreyth to bere it , &c .
PASTON,II,107.300.8409

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
I beseke Almyghty Jesu haue yow , my good maystyr , eternaly in hese
$mercyffull {TEXT:mecyffull} governaunce and jnspyre yow wyth hese
speryt of remembraunce effectualy to procede in this matere .
PASTON,II,107.300.8410

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn breffly at Castre the Monday next be-fore Seynt Edmond the Kyng
A=o= xxxiij R. H. vj=ti= . PASTON,II,107.300.8411

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
Item , ser , as for mony to the sped of this matere , Bokkyng hathe
redy jn comavndement to make deleuery to yow what that ye nede ,
PASTON,II,107.300.8412

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
so there shall be no defaute in that , &c . PASTON,II,107.300.8413

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:33
LETTER:PASTON_300:M4:1454:COPY:OTHER
T. Howys PASTON,II,107.300.8414

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_301> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,109>

{ED:513._SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_TO_HENRY_FYLONGLEY_PASTON_1455,_24_JANUA RY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued cosyns Henre` Fylongley and
John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,109.301.8415

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued cosyns , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,109.301.8416

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And please yow to wite that for as moche as I muste paie this terme in
the Kynges Eschequier for the patente concernyng the warde of Thomas
Fastolf xl li. as parte of payment of iiij=xx= li. or shal bere a grete
losse therby , and also othir grete paymentes must make there mountyng
cc li. or more , as ye knowe weel , and bicause I truste vpon redy
payment of my lord of Caunterbury , whose day of payment is longe
passid , I wole pray yow to speke with my seid lord recomaundyng me in
all humble wise to his good grace ; and that it may please his good
lordship to considre my grete chargis and costys that I bere in the
lawe for the seid warde as othirwise , and that I myght haue the rather
redy payment of my duete` soo as I may stande dischargid of the grete
processe that I and my frendis haue for me in the seid Eschequer as in
othir courtes in my causes , PASTON,II,109.301.8417

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for he is on of the lordis erthely that I moste triste vpon , trustyng
verily he wil tendre me the more consideryng the grete damage that I
bere for lakke of payment of the grete good the Kyng oweth me , and
othir diuerse lordis , to my grete discomforte and hevynesse , God
knowith , who for his mercy haue yow in gouernance .
PASTON,II,109.301.8418

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
$Writen {TEXT:Wrten} at Castre the xxiiij day of Januare .
PASTON,II,109.301.8419

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_301:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Youre cosyn John Fastolf PASTON,II,109.301.8420

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_302> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,109>

{ED:514._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455,_7_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbelovyd cosyn John Paston in goodly
haste . </font> PASTON,II,109.302.8421

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Ryght trusty and welbelouyd cosyn , I comaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,109.302.8422

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And please yow to wete that I am auertysed that at a dyner in Norwiche
, where <P_II,110> as ye and othir jentylmen were present , that there
were certeyn personez , jentylmen , whiche vtteryd skornefull language
of me , as in thys wyse wyth more , seyeng ' War the govnne ,
PASTON,II,110.302.8423

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
war , PASTON,II,110.302.8424

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and goo we to dyner , PASTON,II,110.302.8425

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
goo we . PASTON,II,110.302.8426

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Where ? PASTON,II,110.302.8427

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
To Ser John Fastolffez , PASTON,II,110.302.8428

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and there we shall well paye there-fore . ' PASTON,II,110.302.8429

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
What there menyng was I knowe well to no good entent to me ward .
PASTON,II,110.302.8430

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wherfor , cosyn , I prey yow , as my truste is in yow , that ye geve me
knowelege be writing what jentylmen they be that had this report , wyth
more , and what mo jentylmen were present , as ye wold I shuld and were
my deute` to do for yow in semblabyll wyse . PASTON,II,110.302.8431

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And I shall kepe yowre informacyon in this matere secret , and wyth
Goddez grace so purvey for hem as they shall not all be well pleasyd .
PASTON,II,110.302.8432

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
At suche a tyme a man may knowe hese frendez and hese fooes asondre ,
&c . PASTON,II,110.302.8433

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Jesu preserue and kepe yow . PASTON,II,110.302.8434

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Castre the vij day of Feuerer A=o= xxxiij R. H. vj=ti= .
PASTON,II,110.302.8435

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_302:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
John Fastolf , Knyght PASTON,II,110.302.8436

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_303> <A_THOMAS_HOWES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,111>

{ED:516._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_1455,_PROBABLY_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To the right wurshepfull ser , my good maystyr John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,111.303.8437

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Right wurshepfull ser and my good maistyr , I recomaund me louly vnto
you , thankyng youre good maystyrshep for youre good remembraunce for
the cherche of Stokysby ; wherupon I haue desyred my trusty frend
Wylliam Wurcestre to come be the Abot homward , besekyng you to
auertyse hym youre good avyse how he may be-haue hym best in this
matere to the seyd Abot , &c . PASTON,II,111.303.8438

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And , ser , encas ye myght be at a leyser to be wyth my maystir vpon
Thursday next comyng , forasmyche as Maistyr Yelvyrton and Jenney
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} here , ye shuld do my maistir ryght gret
pleasure . PASTON,II,111.303.8439

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And I beseke you the rather for my sake , PASTON,II,111.303.8440

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for at that tyme the conveyaunce of all materez $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} comovnyd of , PASTON,II,111.303.8441

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and I knowe verely youre avyse shall peyse deppere in my maisterys
conceyt thanne bothyn therez shal do . PASTON,II,111.303.8442

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Ye haue dayly gret labour for me , God reward yow ,
PASTON,II,111.303.8443

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and my pore preyer ye shall haue , &c . PASTON,II,111.303.8444

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
I beseke Almyghti Jesu haue you in hese mercyfull gouernaunce and
graunt you euyr that may be to youre most hertez plessaunce , &c .
PASTON,II,111.303.8445

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_303:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Youre chapeleyn and bedeman Thomas Howys PASTON,II,111.303.8446

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_304> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,112>

{ED:518._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455,_29_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To myn ryght welbeloved cosyn John Paston , squier . </font>
PASTON,II,112.304.8447

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Worshipfull cosyn , I recomaunde me to yow . PASTON,II,112.304.8448

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And lyke yow to wete +tat at this tyme I sende to yow myn welbeloved
frende and seruaunt Ser Thomas Howys , to have youre good councell and
advyse how and in what wyse he may best be demened there at this tyme
in his yeldyng to the sheref vpon his exigend , wheche is and $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} v tymes called as on Monday next comyng , as I
vnderstande ; and the same by good and discrete advyse concluded and
sette in a good weye by sewerte`s founde to appere at London the day of
the retorn of the wrytte PASTON,II,112.304.8449

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
or otherwyse , that thenne if ye thenke hit be to don ye lyke to take
vpon yow to comon wyth myn lord of Norwyche recomaundyng me to hys good
and tender lordship and declaryng to hym how and in what wyse the seyd
Ser Thomas was demened in the oyer and determyner , and sethe how he
hath wrongously and wythought cause be vexed by John Andrews and other
and greetly

trowbled , whervpon this atteynt now is grownded , in suche wyse as ye
thenk best {in}_P to be don ; PASTON,II,112.304.8451

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and that his lordship by youre medyacion here-after geve not any
fauoure to any persone or persones on myn contrarye partye for any
synystre informacion geven other wyse than the trought in the mater
shal require , as he shal weel vnderstande by youre good reporte ,
PASTON,II,112.304.8452

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for ye know the same mater weel . Wherfore , cosyn , I praye yow that
ye wole tender <P_II,113> the same for the weel and good speed +ter-of
, as myn syngler trust is in yow . PASTON,II,113.304.8453

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And the Blessed Trinyte` preserue yow to his pleaser .
PASTON,II,113.304.8454

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
In hast at Castre the xxix day of Marche . PASTON,II,113.304.8455

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Youre John Fastolf , Chr . PASTON,II,113.304.8456

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Item , cosyn , I sende yow a lettre to delyuere to myn seyd lord , wyth
a copye of the same wheche I praye yow to se , PASTON,II,113.304.8457

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and if ye thenk hit be to don $delyuer $it {TEXT:delyueret} youre-self
, &c. , to th'entent he myght know the disposicion of the pepul how
they be sette , &c. ; PASTON,II,113.304.8458

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for he , weel aduertysed in this mater , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} a
greet supporter of trought in this be-half , PASTON,II,113.304.8459

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_304:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for the partye contrarye wole don that they can to laboure the jure`
and don to have theym rewled after theyr entent and contrary to trought
; wheche mater I remytte ondly to youre ryght wyse discrecion .
PASTON,II,113.304.8460

<Q_PAS_A_1455_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_305> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,113>

{ED:519._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1455,_8_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To the ryght wurschipffull and my mooste reuerent maystre , my
Maystre John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,113.305.8461

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith your maistreshipp to witte as for Thorne he come not to me nor
sende , PASTON,II,113.305.8462

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I vndrestande be Ser Thomas Howes that Thorne hathe ben wyth hym
and enformed hym like as your maistreship comaunded me to sey to hes
wyffe , jn wheche the seide Ser Thomas toolde me that he schulde write
to you of it . PASTON,II,113.305.8463

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I feele weele by hym that he is nought weele plesed wyth the swte ,
notwythstandyng that I haue enformed hym like as your maistreship
comaunded me to doo as weele as I gowde , &c . PASTON,II,113.305.8464

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I schall take no distresse there vnto the tyme that I haue answere from
you wherther I shall do it or nought ; wherfore that it like you to
sende worde wether that I shall distreyne or nought .
PASTON,II,113.305.8465

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ferthermore as for other maters that it liked you to comaunde me to
comoun wyth Ser Thomas , I haue don so PASTON,II,113.305.8466

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seith j-nough , PASTON,II,113.305.8467

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and largely <P_II,114> he trusteth to God to make suche a rekenyng of
all maner thynges towchyng Ser John Fastolf that your maistreschipp nor
he shall haue non hurte by it . PASTON,II,114.305.8468

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seithe as for any thyng that he hathe do wythoute your advice it
schal no more be soo , &c . PASTON,II,114.305.8469

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plese you to remembre John Elger , Bockyng , and other for the reskuse
weche whas made for Jankyn Porter . PASTON,II,114.305.8470

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
They speke to me for it PASTON,II,114.305.8471

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they feere hem sore now this teerme . PASTON,II,114.305.8472

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , to remembre Jamys Gresham for to wyth-drawe the swte for W.
Magges , PASTON,II,114.305.8473

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he hathe aggred wyth your maistreship . PASTON,II,114.305.8474

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for tidyngys in this contre` her be noon but suche as ye herd or
+tan ye roode . PASTON,II,114.305.8475

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Blissed Trinyte` $preserue {TEXT:preseue} and kepe you .
PASTON,II,114.305.8476

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten the viij=the= day of Maij . PASTON,II,114.305.8477

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_305:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore $seruaunt {TEXT:serunt} and bedman Richard Calle
PASTON,II,114.305.8478

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_306> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,116>

{ED:523._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455,_28_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght welbelovyd cosyn John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,116.306.8479

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Worshypfull ser and ryght welbelovyd cosyn , I comaund me to yow , and
hertly thankyng yow for the grete labours that ye have take for the
spedyng of my causys at London thys terme passed .
PASTON,II,116.306.8480

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And lyke yow to wete that forasmoch y vnderstand the shyreve of
Norffolkys officers be at Norwych , and now late the wrytt of the
atteynt ys sent home by Wylliam Barker , <P_II,_117> whych wryt y sende
now ayen that by your gode avice ye may comyn wyth the shyreve or hys
officers whate ought be doon there-ynne , and such aunsuer and retorn
to be made as by your grete wysdom shall best be concydered .
PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And assone as ye goodly may y may see yow . PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Both William Barker and Geffrey Spyrlyng ben now at Norwych ,
PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and one of hem yff nede bee shall wayte vppon yow . PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Y pray God have yow yn hys kepyng . PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wreten at Castre xxviij day of Maij . PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Your cosyn John Fastolf PASTON,II,_ID

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_306:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And y trust to God as the woorld goth now the seyd atteynt shall do
ryght weell wyth your gode help . PASTON,II,_ID

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_ERMOWBRAY> <L_PASTON_307> <A_ELEANOR_MOWBRAY>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,117>

{ED:524._FROM_ELEANOR_DUCHESS_OF_NORFOLK_1455,_8_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure right trusti and welbelouid John Paston , esquier .
</font> PASTON,II,117.307.8489

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
The Duchesse of Norffolk PASTON,II,117.307.8490

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Right trusti and welbelouid , we grete you hertili weel .
PASTON,II,117.307.8491

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And for as muche as it is thought right necessarie for diuers causes
+tat my lord haue at this tyme in the parlement suche persones as longe
vnto him and be of his menyall seruauntz , wherin we conceyve your good
will and diligence shal be right expedient , we hertili desire and pray
you that at the contemplacion of thise oure lettres , as oure special
trust is in you , ye wil geve and applie your voice vnto oure right
welbelouid cosin and seruauntz John Howard and Sere Roger Chambirlayn
to be knyghtes of the shire , exorting alle suche othir as be youre
wisdam shal mow be behovefull to the good exployte and conclusion of
the same . PASTON,II,117.307.8492

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And in your faithful attendaunce and trewe devoyre in this partie ye
shal do vnto my lord and vs a singuler pleasir , and cause vs heraftir
to thanke you therfore as ye shal holde you right weel content and
agreid , with the grace of God , who haue you euere in his keping .
PASTON,II,117.307.8493

AUTHOR:ELEANOR_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_307:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wreten in Framlyngham Castel the viij day of Jun .
PASTON,II,117.307.8494

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_308> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,118>

{ED:525._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455,_11_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my cosyn John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,118.308.8495

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Worshypfull cosyn , I recommaunde me to yow , PASTON,II,118.308.8496

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and I thank yow for your lettre sendyng from London .
PASTON,II,118.308.8497

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And as to the maters of substaunce that Bokkyng wrytith to me , he
seyth that a wryt of ravyshment de garde ys taken , and how Wentworth
ys councell calle sore vppon the accion of ij=c= marc yn the Comyn
Place , and John Andreus ys redy there and wryttes of capias ayenst
John Porter aswell as ayenst Ser Thomas . PASTON,II,118.308.8498

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
As for tydynges , he wrytith to yow as to me . PASTON,II,118.308.8499

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
I desyre thatt ye wille haste yow to London , PASTON,II,118.308.8500

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for there ys grete labour ayenst our entent . PASTON,II,118.308.8501

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wentworth hath gheten Debenham , Radclyff wyth othyrs in my lordys
house to be ayenst our entent . PASTON,II,118.308.8502

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
I had leuere ye were at London ij dayes to rathe then ij dayes to late
, PASTON,II,118.308.8503

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for I trust no man ys wyt so well as your oune . PASTON,II,118.308.8504

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
I sende Fitz-Rauff wyth H. Inglose to my lord ayen to veele how he
stant and whate peple be +tar . PASTON,II,118.308.8505

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wryt hastly at Castre xj day of June . PASTON,II,118.308.8506

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Your cosyn J. F. PASTON,II,118.308.8507

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Hyt ys hard to put a man ys trust yn one man to labour ,
PASTON,II,118.308.8508

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for the moo the better ; PASTON,II,118.308.8509

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_308:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for your presence shall be worth half a doseyn of the best lerned men
that shall be there yn thys cause . PASTON,II,118.308.8510

<Q_PAS_C_1455_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_309> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,118>

{ED:526._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455,_22_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght trusty cosyn John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,118.309.8511

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Worshypfull ser and cosyn , I commaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,118.309.8512

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And lyke yow wete that accordyng to your desyre I sende John Russe to
yow , to hafe your <P_II,119> $enformacion of such materes as shall be
thought exspedient to be laboured yn your absence for the mater off
Wentworth , and hafe gove hym in $commaundment to entend it in all that
he can or may . PASTON,II,119.309.8513

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And , cosyn , he hath a lettre of credence to the baylly of Dedham
because of doubt of syght of the baylly ys lettre $ther for disclosyng
, &c. , to do after the wrytyng of T. Denys . PASTON,II,119.309.8514

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And y sende yow ij lettres com to me from London that makyth mencion of
grete besynesse ayenst vs , and an accion take ayenst yow , Howys ,
Bokkyng , &c. that most nedys be tendred ; PASTON,II,119.309.8515

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
in case an essoyn can be take , so moch the better .
PASTON,II,119.309.8516

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And therfor , cosyn , at reuerence of God dispose yow to London yn all
the haste that {in}_P ye can , PASTON,II,119.309.8517

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
for the attachment can not be tille ye com . PASTON,II,119.309.8518

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And our partie aduerse besyeth hem sore yn your absence :
PASTON,II,119.309.8519

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
facies hominis facies leonis . PASTON,II,119.309.8520

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And I have word yn ano+tere lettre that my lord Chauncellor ys yn the
lyke wyse disposed on owre one syde , PASTON,II,119.309.8521

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and therfor that ye kepe hym ynne to help bere the fauour of thys mater
yn all wyse . PASTON,II,119.309.8522

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And Byngham Justise full well disposed also . PASTON,II,119.309.8523

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Dyuers new processe ys ayenst Ser Thomas . PASTON,II,119.309.8524

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
And all o+tere materes I commyt to your discrecion ;
PASTON,II,119.309.8525

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
yff nede be I com thedre my-sylf . PASTON,II,119.309.8526

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Y pray God kepe yow . PASTON,II,119.309.8527

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Wryt hastly vppon Sonday before Seynt John Baptyste .
PASTON,II,119.309.8528

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Your cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,119.309.8529

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
Item , after that I have word from yow so wolle I be gouuerned , and
com to London yff ye sende me word ; PASTON,II,119.309.8530

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:77?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_309:M4:1455:COPY:OTHER
and that I hafe word from yow yff nede be bytyme from London .
PASTON,II,119.309.8531

<Q_PAS_A_1455_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_310> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,121>

{ED:529._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1455,_7_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,121.310.8532

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please your gode maistershyp to wete that as yerstenday came lettres
from London that the parson most nedys vp to London to safe the next
amerciement ; PASTON,II,121.310.8533

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so ys forth to appiere , yff he nedys most , xv=a= Johannis , as ye
shall see by Barkeres lettre , PASTON,II,121.310.8534

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shall be to-morn at London , PASTON,II,121.310.8535

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wyth Goddes grace he shall be releved by the meene of the parlement
. PASTON,II,121.310.8536

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By Sonday yee shall hafe wetyng . PASTON,II,121.310.8537

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for my maister , he departyth not to London tille the next weke
after thys , and he ryde . PASTON,II,121.310.8538

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for tydynges be none couthe , but Ponynges ys qwyt and delyuered of
all tresons , and Ser W. Oldhale ys processe yn the Kynges Bynche
reuersed ; PASTON,II,121.310.8539

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the prest that accused Lordz Cromewell , Grey , and my maister
wolle confesse who caused hym to do it , so that he may have hys lyve ,
&c . PASTON,II,121.310.8540

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Assone as ye goodly may to see my maister it shall be to hym a singuler
pleaser . PASTON,II,121.310.8541

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , a baylly of my maister ys yn Drayton , John Emond , brought a
lettre to yow , PASTON,II,121.310.8542

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he sent me wetyng he was shent vppon som matere , as he supposyth ,
conteyned yn the lettre . PASTON,II,121.310.8543

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y pray you yn ryght be hys gode maister , and that y may wete the cause
, PASTON,II,121.310.8544

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for y doubt he shall and most obbey yff he hath offended .
PASTON,II,121.310.8545

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Castre the Monday vij day Jullet . PASTON,II,121.310.8546

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_310:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your W. Wyrcestre PASTON,II,121.310.8547

<Q_PAS_A_1455_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_311> <A_JAMES_GLOYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,124>

{ED:532._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_PROBABLY_1455,_25_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the rightwurchepfull ser and my goode mayster , my Mayster
John Paston , be this deliuered . </font> PASTON,II,124.311.8548

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Reuerent and right wurchepfull ser and my gode mayster , I recomaund me
to you , prayng you to wete that there is reysed a slandrows noyse in
this countre` vp-vn my Mayster Yeluerton and you and my Mayster
Alyngton , which I suppose is do to bryng you ought of the conceyte of
the pepyll , PASTON,II,124.311.8549

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for at this day ye stand gretly in the countreys conceyte .
PASTON,II,124.311.8550

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is seyde be Heydon and his disciples that my Mayster Yeluerton and
ye and my Mayster Alyngton shuld haue do oon Ser John Tartyssale ,
parson of the Estchirche of Warham and chapeleyn to the Priour of
Walsyngham , to put in to the parlement a bille of diuers tresons don
be my lord of Norwich , Ser Thomas Tudenham , and John Heydon , and ye
shuld haue set to your seales ; PASTON,II,124.311.8551

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if that Heydon had be vj howres fro the parlement lengere than he
was there had be graunted an oyere determynere to haue enquere` of hem
, &c . PASTON,II,124.311.8552

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
This was told yester-day in right wurchepfull audience and a-mong the
thrifties men of this countre` ; PASTON,II,124.311.8553

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thei seyd right shrewedly , PASTON,II,124.311.8554

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for my lord of Norwich hath so flatered the lay pepill as he hath redyn
a-bought his visitacion that he hath there hertes . Wherefore and it
please you to lete me haue knowlech what ye wuld I shuld sey to it
where as I here any such langage , I wull do my parte and haue do
heder-toward as I haue thought in my conceytes best .
PASTON,II,124.311.8555

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if there be any othere seruyce that ye wull comaund me , I am and
<P_II,125> wull be redy at yowre comaundment , with the grace of God ,
how euer haue you in his blyssed kepyng . PASTON,II,125.311.8556

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Wighton in hast vn Sent James Day . PASTON,II,125.311.8557

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_311:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Be your seruaunte James Gloys PASTON,II,125.311.8558

<Q_PAS_A_1455_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_312> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,125>

{ED:534._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1455,_28_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull maister John Paston at Norwiche be +tis
delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,125.312.8559

<P_II,126>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it your maistership to wete +tat I haue sent you wetyng of +te
matier touchyng Brampton as ye wrot to me for , and of Gunnore , wherof
if ye list ye may speke to Nicholl Crome , berar of this , to apiere
for William Shepherd , &c . PASTON,II,126.312.8560

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , +tat Depden seith the name of the customer &c. mystake shall not
hurt by-cause he hath emparled therto by +te same name .
PASTON,II,126.312.8561

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng Aleyn , I can not yet gete it to non issue .
PASTON,II,126.312.8562

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Welby hath called +teron many dyuerses days , PASTON,II,126.312.8563

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and now +tat he hath +te copie of +te tytelyng of +te plee in barre and
a titelyng of myn enformacion to-gedir he seyth he shall delyuere it ,
PASTON,II,126.312.8564

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he seyth he wole be sadly auysed for fere of a ieo fayll , whiche
me were loth shuld happe , &c . PASTON,II,126.312.8565

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Here be many mervaylous tales of thyngges that shall falle +tis next
moneth , as it is seid ; PASTON,II,126.312.8566

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it is talked +tat oon Doktour Grene , a preest , hath kalked and
reporteth +tat by-fore Seynt Andreu Day next comyng shall be +te
grettest bataill +tat was sith +te bataill of Shrewisbury ,
PASTON,II,126.312.8567

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it shall falle bytwene +te Bisshoppis Inne of Salesbury and
Westminster barres , PASTON,II,126.312.8568

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tere shall deye vij lordes , wherof iij shuld be bisshoppes .
PASTON,II,126.312.8569

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Al this and meche more is talked and reported . PASTON,II,126.312.8570

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I trust to God it shall not falle so . PASTON,II,126.312.8571

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also +ter is gret varyance by-twene +te Erll of Deuenshire and +te Lord
Bonvyle , as hath be many day , PASTON,II,126.312.8572

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and meche debat is like to growe +terby ; PASTON,II,126.312.8573

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for on Thursday at nyght last passed +te Erll of Denshyres sone and
heire come wyth lx men of armes to Radfordes place in Deuenshire ,
whiche was of counseil wyth $+te Lord Bonvyle , PASTON,II,126.312.8574

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and they sette an hous on fyer at Radfordes gate PASTON,II,126.312.8575

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and cryed PASTON,II,126.312.8576

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and mad an noyse as $though they had be sory for +te fyer .
PASTON,II,126.312.8577

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And by that cause Radfordes men set opyn +te gates
PASTON,II,126.312.8578

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and yede owt to $se the fyere ; PASTON,II,126.312.8579

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and forwyth th'Erll sone forseid entred into +te place
PASTON,II,126.312.8580

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and intreted Radford to come $doun of his chambre to $speke wyth them ,
promyttyng hym that he shuld no bodyly harm have ; up-on whiche
promysse he come doun and spak wyth +te seid Erll sone .
PASTON,II,126.312.8581

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
In +te mene tyme his menye robbe his chambre PASTON,II,126.312.8582

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ryfled his houses , PASTON,II,126.312.8583

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and trussed suyche as they coude gete to-gyddir PASTON,II,126.312.8584

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and caryed it awey on his <P_II,127> own hors . PASTON,II,127.312.8585

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thanne th'Erll sone seid , ' Radford , thou must come to my lord my
fadir . ' PASTON,II,127.312.8586

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He seid he wold , PASTON,II,127.312.8587

and bad oon of his men make redy his hors to ride wyth hem , whiche
answerd hym +tat alle his hors wern take awey . PASTON,II,127.312.8588

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thanne he seid to +t'Erll sone , ' Ser , your men haue robbed my
chambre , PASTON,II,127.312.8589

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thei haue myn hors +tat I may not ride wyth you to my lord your
fadir ; wherfor I prey you lete me ride , PASTON,II,127.312.8590

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I am old PASTON,II,127.312.8591

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and may not go . ' PASTON,II,127.312.8592

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It was answerid hym ageyn +tat he shuld walke forth wyth $them <em> ...
</em> PASTON,II,127.312.8593

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so he dede till he was a flyte shote or more from his place ,
PASTON,II,127.312.8594

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tanne he was <em> ... </em> softly for cawse he myght not go fast
. PASTON,II,127.312.8595

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And whanne +tei were thus departid he $turned <em> ... </em>
PASTON,II,127.312.8596

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
anoon forwyth come ix men ageyn up-on hym PASTON,II,127.312.8597

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and smot hym in +te hed PASTON,II,127.312.8598

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and fellid <em> ... </em> PASTON,II,127.312.8599

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
oon of them kyt his throte . PASTON,II,127.312.8600

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
This was told to my lord Chaunceler +tis fornoon <em> ... </em>
massengeres as come of purpos owt of +te same cuntre` .
PASTON,II,127.312.8601

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
This matier is take gretly <em> ... </em> <em> ... </em> t passed at ij
after mydnyght rod owt of London as it is seid more +tanne <em> ...
</em> +te best wyse . PASTON,II,127.312.8602

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Summe seyn it was to ride toward my lord of York ,
PASTON,II,127.312.8603

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and summe <em> ... </em> k . PASTON,II,127.312.8604

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
So meche rumour is here ; PASTON,II,127.312.8605

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
what it menyth I wot not . PASTON,II,127.312.8606

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
God turne it <em> ... </em> <em> ... </em> at Hertford ,
PASTON,II,127.312.8607

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and summe men ar a-ferd that he is seek ageyn . PASTON,II,127.312.8608

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I prey God <em> ... </em> my lordes of York , Warwyk , Salesbury , and
o+ter arn in purpos to conveye hym <em> ... </em> e , &c .
PASTON,II,127.312.8609

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The seid N. Crome , berar her-of , shall telle you suyche tydyngges
<em> ... </em> PASTON,II,127.312.8610

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<em> ... </em> n hast at London on Seint Simon Day and Jude .
PASTON,II,127.312.8611

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_312:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pouere J. Gre PASTON,II,127.312.8612

<Q_PAS_A_1455_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_313> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,127>

{ED:535._WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_PASTON_BOKKYNG_1455,_13_NOVEMBER}_CO DE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the ryght worshypfull ser , John Paston , and to my brothyr
John Bokkyng . </font> PASTON,II,127.313.8613

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please it yow to have yn knowlege that y veele well my maister takyth
gretely to hert the materes whych he hath wryt to you vppon the
execucion of my lord of Bedforde ys godes , and in especiall for the
recuueryng of <P_II,128> hem aswell of Ser Andreu O. executours as of
Ser Robert Whytyngham , &c. , to th'entent that it myght be opynly
knowe yn hys lyve-tyme that they be not yn hys gouuernaunce no part of
it , and that hys factours after hym shuld not be troubled ne charged
for it . PASTON,II,128.313.8614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And seth the seyd mater ys of so grete wyght and charge , and that he
takyth it so gretely to hert , puttyng hys grettist trust yn yow to
remembre thys seyd mater by avyse of hys councell lerned both
spirituell as temporell , that ye wolle not delay it but wyth all your
entencion remembred there as ye by your wysdoms shall thynk it moste
expedient , that som fruyt may grow of it . PASTON,II,128.313.8615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
There ys y-nowgh whereoff , and it myght be recuuered .
PASTON,II,128.313.8616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
John Bokkyng , ye know ryght moch yn thys mater , and mooste of my
maister ys entent hereynne . PASTON,II,128.313.8617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfor for myne acquytaille y wryte to you to shew the chieff
wrytynges of the copies of endentures of Ser Robert Whytyngham and of
othyr wrytynges concernyng that to Maister Paston , that he may be more
rypelyer grounded yn the seyd mater when he shall comyn wyth my lordes
of Caunterburye , Cromewell , and wyth onye of my maister councell .
PASTON,II,128.313.8618

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Our Lord kepe you . PASTON,II,128.313.8619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maister carpyth so oft on it dayly PASTON,II,128.313.8620

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that meovyth me to wryte to yow both . PASTON,II,128.313.8621

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Att Castre xiij day of Nouembere . PASTON,II,128.313.8622

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:40?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:34
LETTER:PASTON_313:M4:1455:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your W. $Wor-cestre {TEXT:Wor-cestr_e} PASTON,II,128.313.8623

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_314> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,129>

{ED:537._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PROBABLY_1456,_6_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,129.314.8624

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please your maistershyp to wete that I had sent yow word of the gode
chere that the persons ye wote off had here vppon New Yeere Day , and
how well they toke it , PASTON,II,129.314.8625

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but W. Barker coude playnly enforme yow . PASTON,II,129.314.8626

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And John Sadler of Ocle told me how they auaunted of it when he of
Lynne came by hym at ny+gt lyeng , that he had neuere better chiere ,
&c . PASTON,II,129.314.8627

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My maister demaundyth me sondry tymes when ye shall be here .
PASTON,II,129.314.8628

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I coude not sey till thys day be passed . PASTON,II,129.314.8629

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
William Geney shall be here to-morn , PASTON,II,129.314.8630

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
so wold Jesus ye were here then . PASTON,II,129.314.8631

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I asked licence to ryde yn-to my contree , PASTON,II,129.314.8632

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and my maistre dyd not graunt it ; PASTON,II,129.314.8633

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
he seyd hys wille was for to make , &c . PASTON,II,129.314.8634

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y aunsuerd it syt not me to know it . PASTON,II,129.314.8635

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God gefe hym grace of holsom councell and of a gode disposicion .
PASTON,II,129.314.8636

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Non est opus vnius diei nec vnius septimane . PASTON,II,129.314.8637

<P_II,130>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My Lord Bedford wylle was made yn so bryeff and generall termys that
yn-to thys day by the space of xx yeer can neuere hafe ende , but
allwey new to constrew and oppynable ; PASTON,II,130.314.8638

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
so a generallte` shall ne may be so gode as a particuler declaracion .
PASTON,II,130.314.8639

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wryte blontly . PASTON,II,130.314.8640

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I had foryete to hafe told yow Maister Fylongley meoved me to enforme
my maister to hafe a generalle pease , so it my+gt be wurshypfull .
PASTON,II,130.314.8641

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y hafe seyd no word , PASTON,II,130.314.8642

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I can not medle yn hygh maters that passyth my wyt ;
PASTON,II,130.314.8643

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and therfor yff ye and W. Geney mete to-gheders ye know and can devyne
best whate ys to be doon . PASTON,II,130.314.8644

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Our Lord be wyth yow . PASTON,II,130.314.8645

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt hastly vj day Januare . PASTON,II,130.314.8646

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_314:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
W. Botonere PASTON,II,130.314.8647

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_315> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,133>

{ED:540._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1456,_27_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshypfull ser , John Paston , escuire . </font>
PASTON,II,133.315.8648

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull ser , aftyr dew recommendacion please your gode maistershyp
to wete that where-as my maister wrytith to yow so homelye of so manye
<P_II,134> materes to yow of hys , to be remembred vnto hys councell
lerned by mene of yow and of hys frendz and seruauntz there , y pray
yow and requyre yow not to wyte it me that y am the causer of it that
my seyd maister noyeth yow wyth so manye materes ;
PASTON,II,134.315.8649

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for , be God , hym-sylf remembryth the moste part of hem , albe it the
particuler rehersell of tho materes be fressher yn my remembraunce then
yn hys . PASTON,II,134.315.8650

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , yn trouth he boldyth hym to wryte to yow for the grete lofe
and singuler affeccion he hath yn yow before all othyr yn hys causes
spedyng , and that ye wille moste tendyrlye of ony othyr remembre hys
seruauntes aswell as othyrs to whom belongyth to spede tho materes .
PASTON,II,134.315.8651

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He desyryth my lord Chaunceller shuld wryte to hym speciallye yff he
most nedys com vpp , and a bille to be made yn-to Parlement for
recuuere of my Lord Bedford godes . PASTON,II,134.315.8652

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , there ys one Haryngton of Doncastre , a besye soule , that
dammagyth my maistre to gretely in Bentlay , PASTON,II,134.315.8653

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Herry Sotehille ys of my maister councell PASTON,II,134.315.8654

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but no thyng +tat ys profytable ys don to hym to remedye it .
PASTON,II,134.315.8655

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ye shall see by one John Vincentes lettre sent to yow now ,
PASTON,II,134.315.8656

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and W. Barker can enforme yow . PASTON,II,134.315.8657

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yn the ende of thys terme y suppose to be at London and yn-to west
contre` . PASTON,II,134.315.8658

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My maistre wryteth to yow for a rent of viij li. of annuite` charged of
a touneshyp called Batham Wyly , that Maister Scrope shall be beneficed
yn the ry+gt of it . PASTON,II,134.315.8659

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ye have nede fare fayre wyth hym , PASTON,II,134.315.8660

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he ys full daungerouse when he wille . PASTON,II,134.315.8661

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y gate hym gode evidenses of the seyd rent +tat my maister ne my lady
had neuere , PASTON,II,134.315.8662

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he can not know it , &c . PASTON,II,134.315.8663

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also my maister hath wreten to yow for avice of a new feffement to be
made for the maners of Tychewell and Beyton , and betyme he desyryth to
be sent hym . PASTON,II,134.315.8664

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y pray yow and ye se Maister Yng at a leyser to commaund me to hym ,
PASTON,II,134.315.8665

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and trustyng hys gode maistershyp that he wille be of my councell
ayenst one William Fouler of Bokyngham that kepyth from me a litelle
lond . PASTON,II,134.315.8666

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And yff he wille contynew hys gode maistershyp to me ye may sey hym
that I cast duelle yn my contree and wayt vppon hym to help ghete ayen
a pore gode of myne , PASTON,II,134.315.8667

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for heere y thryve not PASTON,II,134.315.8668

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but lose my tyme . PASTON,II,134.315.8669

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y pray Our Lord have yow yn hys kepyng . PASTON,II,134.315.8670

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt hastlye the xxvij day of Januare . PASTON,II,134.315.8671

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_315:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your oune W. Wyrcestre PASTON,II,134.315.8672

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_316> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,135>

{ED:541._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1456,_5_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshypfull ser and my ryght welbelovyd cosyn John Paston
, and yn hys absence to John Bokkyng and William Barkere . </font>
PASTON,II,135.316.8673

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull ser and cosyn , I recommaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,135.316.8674

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And lyke yow to wete that y have a taylle wyth my cosyn Fenne of v=c=
marc and more for to be chaunged vppon such places as a man myght have
moste spedye payment , PASTON,II,135.316.8675

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and y pray yow hertlye to comyn wyth the seyd Fenne that y myght be
ensured of the seyd taylle to be eschaunged , PASTON,II,135.316.8676

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and for whate rewarde competent to be yoven vppon the same I wolle
agree it . PASTON,II,135.316.8677

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , y desyre to know who ben the remenant of the coexecutours of the
Lord Wyllughbye , now the Lord Cromewell ys decesed , for thys cause :
PASTON,II,135.316.8678

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
hyt was so that there was dew to the Lord Wyllughbye and to me x m=l=
marc for a reward to be payd of my Lord Bedford ys godes for the takyng
of the Duc of Allauncon , PASTON,II,135.316.8679

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and the seyd Lord Wyllughbye had but one thowsand marc payd and I m=l=
marc , PASTON,II,135.316.8680

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
so viij m=l= levyth yhyt to pay , of whych somme iiij m=l= most grow to
the executours of the seyd Lord Wyllughby to dispose .
PASTON,II,135.316.8681

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And therfor y desyre that the executours and such as most have intrest
in the Lord Wyllughby goodes may be comyned wyth , that they make
purseute for payment of the seyd iiij m=l= marc for hys part to be had
, and y shall make for my part . PASTON,II,135.316.8682

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Maister Nevyle , the whych hath wedded my Lady Wyllughbye , have
power or intrest to resseyve the Lord Wyllughby ys debtes , then he to
be laboured vn-too ; PASTON,II,135.316.8683

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and my lord of Salysburye woll be a grete helper yn thys cause .
PASTON,II,135.316.8684

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Kyng , whych ys superuisor of my Lord Bedford testament , hath
wreten and commaunded by sondry lettres that the seyd Lord Wyllughbye
shuld be content for hys part ; PASTON,II,135.316.8685

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so moch the mater ys the furtherere . PASTON,II,135.316.8686

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And there ys one Yon , a seruaunt of the Lord Wyllugbye , whych
pursewed thys mater . PASTON,II,135.316.8687

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yff he were yn London he coude geve gode enformacion vppon thys matere
. PASTON,II,135.316.8688

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y pray yow wryte to me how my materes doth , and of such nouueltees as
ye have there . PASTON,II,135.316.8689

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lord have yow in hys kepyng . PASTON,II,135.316.8690

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Castre hastlye v day of Feuer+gere A=o= xxxiiij=to= R. H. vj
. PASTON,II,135.316.8691

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_316:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,135.316.8692

<Q_PAS_A_1456?_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_317> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,137>

{ED:544._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_PERHAPS_1456,_24_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull Maister John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,137.317.8693

<P_II,138>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
After due recomendacion had , please it your maistership to wytte +tat
William Yeluerton was mevid by me to commune wyth my maister his fadir
, as I wrot to yow from Norwich . PASTON,II,138.317.8694

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And now he tellith me +tat he hath communed wyth his fadir ,
PASTON,II,138.317.8695

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he vndirstondith +tat his fadir seyth +tat he hath not knowelaged
Fennes obligacion . PASTON,II,138.317.8696

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he seyth +tat Maister Fastolf vndirstood that Fen hadde title to
+te maner of Haryngby , PASTON,II,138.317.8697

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +terfor wold he that Fen shuld haue it after Maister F. lyve ;
PASTON,II,138.317.8698

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and by liklynes +ter shall be labour made by Fen to haue releses of
Maister Yeluerton , &c. , PASTON,II,138.317.8699

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he hath not yet relesed . PASTON,II,138.317.8700

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He can nomore vndirstond of hym as yet . PASTON,II,138.317.8701

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
If he can vndirstond ony more pleynly +tis day I shall haue knowelage
at Norwich on Friday or Saterday next comyng . PASTON,II,138.317.8702

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it you to haue pacience though I write so brefly .
PASTON,II,138.317.8703

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
In hast at Walsyngham +te Wednesseday next to-fore Estern .
PASTON,II,138.317.8704

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_317:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pouere seruaunt James Gre PASTON,II,138.317.8705

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_AOGARD> <L_PASTON_318> <A_ALICE_OGARD>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,138>

{ED:545._FROM_DAME_ALICE_OGARD_1456,_30_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull cosyn John Paston , esquyer . </font>
PASTON,II,138.318.8706

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshypfull and enterly belouyd cosyn , I comaund me to yow
hertyly , latyng yow wete that there ys a contraversie mevyd be-twix my
cosyn John Radeclyff off Attylburgh and me for the aduoweson of the
chirch of Attylburgh , the whech ys now voide , wheroff the title is
myn veryly , as God knowith , the whech shall be oppenyd vnto yow .
PASTON,II,138.318.8707

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And vpon Thursday next atte Wymondham there shall be take an enquerre`
de jure patronatus afore Master Robert Popy and Master Symond Thornham
, atte whech day I may nought be my-selff , as God knowyth , and thow I
myght yt were not convenyent . PASTON,II,138.318.8708

<P_II,139>

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And therfore , ryght trusty cosyn , consideryng that I am a wedowe ,
jmpotent as of body , tendyrly and hertily I pray you yf yt lyke yow to
be there assistyng my councell in my right as reson and lawe wille vpon
Thursday next be viij of the clokke ; PASTON,II,139.318.8709

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Fyncham , Spelman , and othir of my councell shall be than there
waytyng vpon yow . PASTON,II,139.318.8710

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , jentyll cosyn , haue me excusid thowh I wryte thus brefly and
homly to yow , PASTON,II,139.318.8711

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for in trouth I do it of a syngulere trust and affeccion the wheche I
haue in yow , consideryng the goode name and fame of trouth , wysdom ,
and goode conducte the which I here of you . PASTON,II,139.318.8712

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And therfor , and ye may to youre well , I beseche you hertyly to be
there , PASTON,II,139.318.8713

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and ye shall nought lese therby , with the grace of Almyghty Jesu , the
wheche euyr preserue and promote you , gentill cosyn , in moche worship
to youre hertys ease . PASTON,II,139.318.8714

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Atte Bokenham Castell on Teuysday in Pache Weke , in hast .
PASTON,II,139.318.8715

AUTHOR:ALICE_OGARD:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_318:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
D. A. Ogard PASTON,II,139.318.8716

<Q_PAS_A_1456_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_319> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,141>

{ED:548._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_1456,_8_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my worshipful Maist. John Paston , squier . </font>
PASTON,II,141.319.8717

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sire , please it your maistership to wyte that on Wednesday the v day
of Maij I receyved a lettre from you by the prestis man of Walsyngham ,
PASTON,II,141.319.8718

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the Ascencion Day in the mornyng I receyved a lettre from yow bi
the handis of John Frays , myn maisteris man , jn whiche bothe moche
+tinge is conteyned whiche all at +tis tyme I may nought answere vn-to
myn comyng +te nexte weke . PASTON,II,141.319.8719

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as to our atteynte , the Chief Justice hathe sithe +tis day
seuenyght kept +te Gildehalle in London with all +te lordis and juges
sauf on in eche place . PASTON,II,141.319.8720

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Myn Maister Markham yesterday rode <P_II,142> owte of London be-tymes .
PASTON,II,142.319.8721

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Noughtwithstandyng we called +ter-vpon PASTON,II,142.319.8722

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and hadde at +te barre Chokke , Litelton , Jenney , Illyngworth , $John
Jenney , and Dyne , PASTON,II,142.319.8723

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and remembrid +te longe hangyng and +te trouthe of +te matier , with
+te grete hurte of +te partie in +te tyme ; PASTON,II,142.319.8724

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and we haue rule +te next terme betymes and non o+terwise ,
PASTON,II,142.319.8725

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for to-morwe +te juges sitten ayen in +te toun . PASTON,II,142.319.8726

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Mayster Yeluerton can nought be myry for Wyrmegey ,
PASTON,II,142.319.8727

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for the distresse it is a non omittas PASTON,II,142.319.8728

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +terfore Poley may and wil retorne what jsseus he will .
PASTON,II,142.319.8729

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
If +tei be smale we shall suffre at +tis tyme ; PASTON,II,142.319.8730

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
if +tei be grete we must appere for Wyngfelde , PASTON,II,142.319.8731

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and moche labour we haue to conceyve a goode warant of attorney .
PASTON,II,142.319.8732

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
We shal plede +te next terme , PASTON,II,142.319.8733

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for as at +tis tyme we wold on Monday enparle and we may .
PASTON,II,142.319.8734

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye muste suerly entrete +te shireve , PASTON,II,142.319.8735

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for we haue moche to doo with hym . PASTON,II,142.319.8736

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As yesterday hadde we a grete day also in +t'Eschequer .
PASTON,II,142.319.8737

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Myn maister is moche bounde to Haltofte , PASTON,II,142.319.8738

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tere we ar assigned day over to the next terme
PASTON,II,142.319.8739

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and dwelle in lawe . PASTON,II,142.319.8740

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Our counsail was longe or +tei come , PASTON,II,142.319.8741

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but at +te laste +tei acquitte them weel . PASTON,II,142.319.8742

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te bille was +tought nought by all +tat stode at +te barre +tat were
of no+ter partie . PASTON,II,142.319.8743

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
We er ioyned in +te sute of +te obligacion in +te Comon Place ayenst
Jenney and Howes . PASTON,II,142.319.8744

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for attachement , ye may non haue withowte ye or on of yow make your
othe in propre persone before the barons . PASTON,II,142.319.8745

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I wolde haue doon it ; PASTON,II,142.319.8746

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I cowde nought be amytted . PASTON,II,142.319.8747

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for o+ter processe , it is aduised +tat by the cors of
+t'Eschequer I shal take a venire facias ayenst Wentworthe , Andrews ,
Longe Barnard , and Deyvill ad respondendum quare in possessionem &c.
ingressi sunt . PASTON,II,142.319.8748

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And we most telle where , o+ter Coughawe or Kirkeley I suppose , and
+terupon a distresse and an attachement ; PASTON,II,142.319.8749

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
neuer+teles by your othe , &c. , here-after . PASTON,II,142.319.8750

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And jt is +tought good +tat the same men shal be in +te writte of
rauyshment . PASTON,II,142.319.8751

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Jenney hathe aduised vs to ley it in Blithinge hundre ,
PASTON,II,142.319.8752

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I haue taken of hym names ; PASTON,II,142.319.8753

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for as for London it is to nyghe enbracerye , as ye thought well ,
PASTON,II,142.319.8754

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and soo is Middelsex . PASTON,II,142.319.8755

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Maister Yeluerton conceyvith it weel to your entent .
PASTON,II,142.319.8756

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tere ar aboughte and in Suffolk but fewe men as of gentilmen and men
of substance but if it be in Blithing hundre , were Hopton is grete ;
PASTON,II,142.319.8757

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but Jenney dredeth it nought PASTON,II,142.319.8758

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
we may haue good men at large , PASTON,II,142.319.8759

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for +te hundre he wil doo j-now +terjnne .
PASTON,II,142.319.8760

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for +te tailes of iiij=xx= li. , as yette we shal do weel j-nowghe ;
PASTON,II,142.319.8761

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tei were contentid , PASTON,II,142.319.8762

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
or +tei +tat shal haue +te siluere , +te noyse were +te lesse ,
PASTON,II,142.319.8763

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it shall in pledyng alwey be rehersid by our contrarie party +tat
for x marc we haue all +tat euere +ter is , &c . PASTON,II,142.319.8764

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can nought here how Wentworthe takith +tis matier by noo meane ;
PASTON,II,142.319.8765

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
what he meneth I wote nought . PASTON,II,142.319.8766

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He is noo +ting pleasid with +te matier of +te bille in +t'Eschequer .
PASTON,II,142.319.8767

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thomas Denys come yesterday and non erste . PASTON,II,142.319.8768

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I wolde Arblaster and he speke with yow +tis vacacion .
PASTON,II,142.319.8769

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I write noo more til myn comyng . PASTON,II,142.319.8770

<P_II,143>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for tidinges , noon o+tere +tanne I sent yow laste ;
PASTON,II,143.319.8771

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but forthe on +te same , all is as it was with +te Quene , +te Prince ,
and myn Lord York , PASTON,II,143.319.8772

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ar stille at Tutbury and Sandale , and myn lord of Warrewik at Warrewik
. PASTON,II,143.319.8773

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Myn Lord Bukingham rode on Ascencion Even to Writell , noo +ting weel
plesid and sumwhat on-easid of herte to his purpose ;
PASTON,II,143.319.8774

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for the Kyng hathe ley in London Friday , Saterday , Sonday , Monday ,
Teusday , and Wednesday remevid to Westminster ayen . In all whiche
tyme men of London +tat were chargid and sworn wolde nought ner hadde
noo +ting presentid sauf trespas ; PASTON,II,143.319.8775

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+tis day +tei shal sitte ayen . PASTON,II,143.319.8776

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te peas is weel kepte , PASTON,II,143.319.8777

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but +te straungiers ar soore a-dradde PASTON,II,143.319.8778

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and dar nought come on brode . PASTON,II,143.319.8779

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Here is all +tat I knowe as yet . PASTON,II,143.319.8780

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Our Lord Jesu be with yow . PASTON,II,143.319.8781

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Suthwerk +te viij day of Maij . PASTON,II,143.319.8782

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue paied to Dory c s. , and with moche peyne made hym to ghete day
of +te o+ter c s. til +te nex terme . PASTON,II,143.319.8783

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_319:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your owen J. B. PASTON,II,143.319.8784

<Q_PAS_A_1456_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_320> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,143>

{ED:549._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_1456,_15_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,143.320.8785

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Worshipful ser and my good maister , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,143.320.8786

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+Tis day I come home , PASTON,II,143.320.8787

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as to our materes I shall be with yow on Monday and Teusday next ,
be myn maister is aduys , and enforme yow of all and of suche as I wil
nought write . PASTON,II,143.320.8788

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your cofre is at +te Prince Inne ; PASTON,II,143.320.8789

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
sende for it whanne ye like be the token . PASTON,II,143.320.8790

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I hadde of Margrete Goche a booke of lawe +tat Wigge brought me .
PASTON,II,143.320.8791

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for tidynges , myn maisterys your bre+ter faren weel
PASTON,II,143.320.8792

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and recomaunde +tem to myn maistresse +tere moder , to yow , and to all
, &c . PASTON,II,143.320.8793

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for tidinges elles , +te Kyng is at Shene , the Quene and Prince at
Tutbury , PASTON,II,143.320.8794

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but if it be +te latter remevyng . PASTON,II,143.320.8795

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tidinges were +tat +te Lord Beaumont was slayn and my Lord Warrewik
soore hurte , m=l= men slayn and vj=xx= knyghtes and squiers hurte ;
and noo +ting trewe , blessid be God . PASTON,II,143.320.8796

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for +te Lumbardes , ij of +te trespasers were hangid on Monday
PASTON,II,143.320.8797

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there ar be +tis tyme proclamacions made , or shall be , thorwe
London +te <P_II,144> pees to be kepte vp-on grete peynes , and +te
Lumbardes to occupie +tere merchaundizes as +tei dide til +te Counsail
or Parlament haue o+terwise determyned ; PASTON,II,144.320.8798

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and noo more as yet . PASTON,II,144.320.8799

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The atteynte abidith vnreulid til +te next terme , as I shal telle yow
, PASTON,II,144.320.8800

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it shal doo weel , with God is grace , hoo haue yow in kepyng and
all youres . PASTON,II,144.320.8801

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Writen at Castre vigilia Pentecosten . PASTON,II,144.320.8802

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_320:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your owen J. B. PASTON,II,144.320.8803

<Q_PAS_A_1456?_FS_HWINDSOR> <L_PASTON_321> <A_HENRY_WINDSOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,144>

{ED:550._FROM_HENRY_WINDSOR_PERHAPS_1456,_16_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
After humble and due recommendacion , please it your gode maistership
to vnderstand that $at $te {TEXT:atte} makyng of this my pour letter
ther were no noueltees with us but suche as yee vnderstode full well
afor your departyng , except the Kyng woll in-to Scotland in all maner
wyse of werre , and that my lord of Welteshire $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
made Chaunceller . PASTON,II,144.321.8804

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I suppose the better is but a sclaunder , PASTON,II,144.321.8805

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and therfore be ye auised howe ye delyuer theym as tidynges .
PASTON,II,144.321.8806

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also I wotte full well where I lefte you in suche matiers as it
pleassed you to make me of your counsell as touchyng oon matier
specially , and howe that ye said vnto me whenne I desired your goode
maistership to shewe favour in suche as {in}_P ye best myght yf any
thing shuld be shewed ad lumen , my Maister F. except , and howe that
ye answered and said as it pleassed you , that I was conquered ,
PASTON,II,144.321.8807

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
in trouth that shuld preve but a full grete vnstabulnes in me , with
more , &c . PASTON,II,144.321.8808

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But , sir , I pray you howe some euer my maister rekeneth with any of
his seruauntes , bring not the matier in reuolucion in the opon courte
, PASTON,II,144.321.8809

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for and it were ones opened afore the <P_II,145> juges howe that any
lettrez patentez shuld be purchased of an ante date , and the defaute
founde in me , ye wold be a m=l= tymes auised , and my Maister F. both
, or that ye wold amend me soo much as I shuld be appered therbe .
PASTON,II,145.321.8810

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And therfor I beseche you be well auised howe that matier be oponed ,
for myn ease . PASTON,II,145.321.8811

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I was not desired to write vnto you of no on persone , so God be my
help , your-self except . PASTON,II,145.321.8812

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But I wold ye wold take auise and counsell of the preest that hadde you
soo long vnder hand on Shorthursday whenne I and my feleship , God
thank you , hadde of you right grete chere to our grete counfort and
your grete coste , howe that the same preest vnderstandeth this letter
of the Gospell vnderwriten : PASTON,II,145.321.8813

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
' Jesus dixit Simoni Petro , Si peccauerit in te frater tuus , vade et
corripe eum inter te et ipsum solum . PASTON,II,145.321.8814

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Si te audierit lucratus es fratrem tuum ; PASTON,II,145.321.8815

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
si autem te non audierit , adhibe tecum adhuc vnum vel duos , vt in ore
duorum vel trium testium stet omne verbum . PASTON,II,145.321.8816

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Quod si non audierit , dic ecclesie ; PASTON,II,145.321.8817

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
si autem ecclesiam non audierit , sit tibi sicut ethnicus et publicanus
, &c . PASTON,II,145.321.8818

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And in another place , PASTON,II,145.321.8819

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
' Tunc accedens Petrus ad Iesum dixit , Domine , quociens pecauit in me
frater meus , dimittam ei vsque sepcies ? PASTON,II,145.321.8820

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Dicit illi Jesus , Non dico tibi vsque sepcies , set vsque septuagesies
sepcies . ' PASTON,II,145.321.8821

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My maister can doo no thing the which shall comme in opon audience at
thise deies but it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} called your dede .
PASTON,II,145.321.8822

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Hit is not vnknoon that cruell and vengible he hath byn euer , and for
the most parte withoute pite` and mercy . PASTON,II,145.321.8823

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can no more , but vade et corripe eum , PASTON,II,145.321.8824

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for truly he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bryng about his matiers in this
word , PASTON,II,145.321.8825

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for the word is not for hym . PASTON,II,145.321.8826

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I suppose it $will $not {TEXT:wolnot} chaunge yette be likelenes ,
PASTON,II,145.321.8827

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I beseche you , sir , help not to amend hym onely , but euery other
man yf ye kno any mo mysse disposed . PASTON,II,145.321.8828

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can no more , but as I can or mey I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} his
seruaunt and youres vnto such tyme as ye woll commaunde me to sursese
and leve of , yf it please hym . PASTON,II,145.321.8829

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sir , I pray you take this copy of your statute ;
PASTON,II,145.321.8830

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
it is not examined be me , PASTON,II,145.321.8831

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I found hit thise v yeres passed . PASTON,II,145.321.8832

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Writon in my slepyng tyme at after none on Wytsonday .
PASTON,II,145.321.8833

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also , sir , yf I haue rehersed wyttyngly the text of the Gospell
syngularly vnto your maistership I beseche you to be had excused .
PASTON,II,145.321.8834

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_321:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your awn H. W. PASTON,II,145.321.8835

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_322> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,146>

{ED:551._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1456,_1_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston yn haaste . </font> PASTON,II,146.322.8836

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please youre good maistirship to wete that my lord of Norffolke yaf in
comaundement to Cristofre and to the balif of Colneise to laboure with
us acording to youre mocion . PASTON,II,146.322.8837

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as to Skilly , fermour of Cowhaugh , we enteryd there
PASTON,II,146.322.8838

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and seyd we wold haue payment for the half yeer past and sewyrte` for
the half yeer comyng , or ellys we wold distreyne and put hym out of
pocesseon and put in a newe fermoure ; PASTON,II,146.322.8839

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so oure demenyng was suche that we toke no distresse
PASTON,II,146.322.8840

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yit we haue hym bounde in an obligacion of xviij li. payabil at
Michelmesse withoute condecion , PASTON,II,146.322.8841

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and vj s. viiij d. we receyuid of hym for a pocession ,
PASTON,II,146.322.8842

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for the ferme as yit remayneth on-gatherid in the fermourez handes .
PASTON,II,146.322.8843

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But I seyd hym I wold be there ageyn for the recedu of the half yeer
ferme past withinne this xiiij dayez , PASTON,II,146.322.8844

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyd he wold do hise delygence to gather it up .
PASTON,II,146.322.8845

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But he spak with Wentworth sethyn , whiche yaf hym an vttyr rebuke , as
he swore to me , and seyd he wold haue hys payment of Skylly and sewe
hise oblygacion this next terme whiche he is bounden in to Wentworth
for the yeerly payment of the same ferme . PASTON,II,146.322.8846

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the seyd Wentworth seyd he wyll takyn an accyon of trespas this
next terme ageyn us that were there ; PASTON,II,146.322.8847

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Devyle seyd ye were hendere the londez at the begyning of youre
sute thanne ye be now , PASTON,II,146.322.8848

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and that $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} knowe be Lammesse next comyng ,
PASTON,II,146.322.8849

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe thyngez to shewe ye sawe neuyr yit .
PASTON,II,146.322.8850

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Skilly offerid me xl s. to haue delyuered hym ageyn hise obligacion ,
PASTON,II,146.322.8851

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he wold haue put me in pocession of a distresse and I wold haue
delyuered it hym . PASTON,II,146.322.8852

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He seithe he dede neuyr so mad a dede , PASTON,II,146.322.8853

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for Wentworth wold no bettyr mean thane we had takyn a distresse .
PASTON,II,146.322.8854

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He shuld sone haue remedyed that , PASTON,II,146.322.8855

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but now he seith Skylli is withoute remedy but he will be payd , &c .
PASTON,II,146.322.8856

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , sir , as to the fermourez of the maner of Langston in Brustal ,
we haue also sewyrte` be oblygacion withoute condecion payabil at
Michilmesse , PASTON,II,146.322.8857

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and toke no distresse PASTON,II,146.322.8858

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but enteryd the londez ; PASTON,II,146.322.8859

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but we had gret peyne to brynge heme there-to , PASTON,II,146.322.8860

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for there is on John Cook of Braunford hathe it in ferme of Wentworth
all , PASTON,II,146.322.8861

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he leteth it out ageyn be parcellez to iij sondre` persons .
PASTON,II,146.322.8862

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But he was not at hom , where-for we haue the <P_II,147> same fermourez
bounde for payment , PASTON,II,147.322.8863

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and they had no mony redy PASTON,II,147.322.8864

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but they haue promysed to delyuere Herry Deye at Yepiswiche this day xx
s. in party of payment . PASTON,II,147.322.8865

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , sir , as to the fermour of the maner of Bentley clepid Bentley
Houses , we haue hym bonde in lyke wyse for the ferme of the seyd maner
from Michilmesse last past tyl Mychelmesse next comyng , jn an
oblygacion of x mark payabil at Michilmesse next comyng , without ony
condecyon ; PASTON,II,147.322.8866

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and in party of payment I haue receyuid of hym xiij s. iiij d .
PASTON,II,147.322.8867

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he promyseth me iiij markez at Lammesse next comyng .
PASTON,II,147.322.8868

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for Bradwell , my maistir hathe sewyrte` ;
PASTON,II,147.322.8869

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as for Kyrley Halle , I was with the fermour yistirday
PASTON,II,147.322.8870

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but he wyll paye no peny nor be bounde neithir , wherfor my maistir
shal sende us to take a distresse tomorwyn PASTON,II,147.322.8871

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I truste we shal fynde sum meanys to haue hym bounde , &c .
PASTON,II,147.322.8872

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , John Andrewe hathe in fee yerly of the maner of Coughaugh xx s.
, and Thomas Denys xiij s. iiij d. of the maner of Foxhole ;
PASTON,II,147.322.8873

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but as ferre as I can enquere there is payd no more feez out of non of
the maneris to non othir men but to these tweyne .
PASTON,II,147.322.8874

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the endenturis , I sende here-with a copy of Skyllyez
endenture and a copy of Deynis endenture , fermoure of the maner of
Bentley clepid Bentley Houses , PASTON,II,147.322.8875

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Herry Deye shal brynge a copy of John Cookez endenture of the ferme
of the maner of Langston in Brustall ; PASTON,II,147.322.8876

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as for Wareyn Bonde he mad neuyr endenture for the ferme of Kyrkley
Halle , PASTON,II,147.322.8877

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he hathe ocupyed it but sethin Michilmesse last past
PASTON,II,147.322.8878

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so he holdith it but he promyse upon compnaunt .
PASTON,II,147.322.8879

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And we shal gete a copy of Sewalys endenture , fermour of Bradwelle ,
PASTON,II,147.322.8880

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and me semyth , sauyng youre bettyr auyse , it were right expedient
that ye shuld for the sped of this mater be at London in al haste .
PASTON,II,147.322.8881

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_322:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre humble seruaunt and bedeman John Russe PASTON,II,147.322.8882

<Q_PAS_A_1456_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_323> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,147>

{ED:552._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_1456,_7_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right good maister John Paston , squier , at Norwiche in
haste . </font> PASTON,II,147.323.8883

<P_II,148>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sir , please it your maistership to wyte I haue myn attachement
grauntid in open courte with helpe of Litelton and Hewe at Fen , and
was biden to make redy the names and to come to make an othe +tis same
day , at whiche tyme +te barons comond to-guydre and wolde nought
suffre me to make it , but +tat +te patente`s nedis must ;
PASTON,II,148.323.8884

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I askid if on of +tem allone myght doo it , PASTON,II,148.323.8885

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and Haltoft seid yea . Wherupon ye must come hider
PASTON,II,148.323.8886

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and soo Litelton avisith . PASTON,II,148.323.8887

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuer+teles we be purposid to take owte a venire facias , wher-jnne we
shal alway haue distressis , and if +tei were retorned nil a capias ,
and we may haue , as Myldenhale seith , an latitat whider we wole .
PASTON,II,148.323.8888

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your writte of rauishment is jnne +tis day , PASTON,II,148.323.8889

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and William Broun is take vp by Gresham and me in +te matier
PASTON,II,148.323.8890

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and is weel contentid . PASTON,II,148.323.8891

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
John Andrewe and Deyvill were here +te first day of +te courte ,
PASTON,II,148.323.8892

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and soore called on Jenney and Howes in +te Comon Place
PASTON,II,148.323.8893

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and hadden neuere +te more spede . PASTON,II,148.323.8894

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for +te atteynt , the Chief Justice is nought come .
PASTON,II,148.323.8895

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Markham calleth soore vpon +te goun . PASTON,II,148.323.8896

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye must helpe it as ye haue begonnen , +tat ye may bringe hym good
tidingis . PASTON,II,148.323.8897

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Moche +tere is like to be doon for +te matier of rescuse pledid .
PASTON,II,148.323.8898

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tei wil noise William Jenney soore , and haue all the juges to-guydre
for +te same cause , and sey +tat it was William Jenney is dede .
PASTON,II,148.323.8899

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
How it wole +trive we wotte nought yet . PASTON,II,148.323.8900

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tis same day +tere is made processe of capias ayenst Howis and Porter
, retornable oct. Mich. ; PASTON,II,148.323.8901

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for God is sake +tat +tei hastily be $ware to kepe +tem weel .
PASTON,II,148.323.8902

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
We haue +tis day a rule in +te matier of Rouchestre to haue a vieu ;
PASTON,II,148.323.8903

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
at youre comyng we shal haue sum good ende with your helpe in +te same
matier . PASTON,II,148.323.8904

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for tidingis , the Kyng is at Shene , +te Quene at Chestre ;
PASTON,II,148.323.8905

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
the Duc of Bukingham was , as I come hiderward , at Writell , +te Erle
of Warrewik at Warrewik , and +te lordis Chaunceller , Tresorier , and
+t'Erle of Sarisbury in London , and noo moo lordis at +te begynnyng
+tis day of +te grete Counsail . PASTON,II,148.323.8906

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Many men say +tat +tere shuld be , PASTON,II,148.323.8907

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but +tei wote nought what . PASTON,II,148.323.8908

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te sege shall , as men say , come to Caleys or to Guynes ,
PASTON,II,148.323.8909

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for moche puple come ouere +te water of Somme , and grete navies on +te
see . PASTON,II,148.323.8910

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+T'Erle of Penbroke is with +te Kyng , and noo moo lordis .
PASTON,II,148.323.8911

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+T'Erle of Richemond and Griffith Such ar at werre gretely in Wales .
PASTON,II,148.323.8912

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te comouns of Kent , as +tei were wonte , ar nought all weel disposid
, PASTON,II,148.323.8913

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for +tere is in doyng amongis hem what euere it bee .
PASTON,II,148.323.8914

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Of Scottis is here but litell talkyng . PASTON,II,148.323.8915

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Myn Lord York is at Sendall stille , PASTON,II,148.323.8916

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and waytith on +te Quene and she vp-on hym . PASTON,II,148.323.8917

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I dide myn maisteress youre moder is erandis , as ye haue herde of
PASTON,II,148.323.8918

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Maister William hath writen his entente ; PASTON,II,148.323.8919

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he and Clement faren weel . PASTON,II,148.323.8920

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Horshighdoun vij=mo= die Junij . PASTON,II,148.323.8921

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your owen J. B. PASTON,II,148.323.8922

<P_II,149>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Rokewode and Crane faren weel , PASTON,II,149.323.8923

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tei and I recomaunde hem to myn maistresse your wif .
PASTON,II,149.323.8924

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_323:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as I vnderstande +te Clerk of +te Rolles is owte of charite` with
Maister Yeluerton , and myn lord Chaunceller a litell mevid , &c .
PASTON,II,149.323.8925

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_324> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,149>

{ED:553._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_18_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshipfull and myn weelbeloved cosyn John Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,149.324.8926

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull cosyn , I recomaunde me to yow . PASTON,II,149.324.8927

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for suche aduertysementes as ye sent to me by William Barker to
have myn advyse inne , ye know how that I have putte myn trust in yow
bothe for myn sowle helthe and also for the pursewt and diffence of
alle werdly maters towchyng myn person , prayng yow hertly to don in
youre aduertysementes and alle other maters as ye , by th'advyse of myn
lerned councell whan ye ben to-geders , shal advyse for myn weel ,
worship , and profyte . PASTON,II,149.324.8928

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For ye knowe weel I am so vysyted by the hande of God that I may not
dele with suche trowblews maters with-ought hit shuld be to greet hurt
to my bodyly weelfare , wheche I trust ye wole not desyre , &c .
PASTON,II,149.324.8929

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , if ye may vnderstande that myn lady of York be disposed
to come to this pore place , I praye yow hertly that ye wole recomende
me to hyr noble ladyship and telle hir how hit is with me , so as I may
ben excused for this tyme , PASTON,II,149.324.8930

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for hit wold ben greet hevynesse to me to vnderstande hir ladyship here
PASTON,II,149.324.8931

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I myght not receyve hir as I aught . PASTON,II,149.324.8932

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And if any thyng hir ladyship wold with me , hit may please hir to lete
yow vnderstande hit , by wheche she may have aunswer as weel as she
laboured ferther , if hit please hyre . PASTON,II,149.324.8933

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the Blessed Trinyte` be with you . PASTON,II,149.324.8934

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
In hast at Castre the xviij day of Jun . PASTON,II,149.324.8935

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_324:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
J. Fastolf PASTON,II,149.324.8936

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_325> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,150>

{ED:554._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_24_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshypfull ser and my ryght welbelovyd cosyn John Paston
. </font> PASTON,II,150.325.8937

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshypfull sir and cosyn , I recomaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,150.325.8938

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And lyke yow wete that thys day there was my cosyn Sir Mylys Stapulton
, Sir Simond Braylyes , Andreu Grygges hyr resseyuour , and Grymston
wyth me at Castre , and brought me the somme of ccliij marc and wold
hafe $made payment to me so that I had y-had th'obligacion heere .
PASTON,II,150.325.8939

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And therfor I sende a lettre wyth my trusty seruaunt Colyn how the seyd
Sir Simond and I be accorded for delyueraunce of it there yff ye thynk
it to be doon , and a lettre of the seyd Sir Simond and the marchauntes
that be bounden to resseyve my monney bye , or th'obligacion to be sent
hedre , as I wryte more playnlye yn a lettre speciallye for the seyd
cause apart . PASTON,II,150.325.8940

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the seyd Sir Symond made manye strange mocions seyeng that the seyd
monney was payd before , as c marc by hys handes and c li. by
assignement to Clyffton , vppon whych y dyd aunsuer hym as y wryte more
pleynly apart by the seyd Colyn . PASTON,II,150.325.8941

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , that the xviij and xix day of thys month Long Bernard , wyth a
preest of Kent to the nombre of xvj horses , have {ED:ben}_BEN at
Nacton , Bentlay , and othyr places of F. and entred by colour of a
dede of feffement made to the Lady Roos and othyrs , and hafe ryght
proude langage to the fermours that they wille obteyn theyr entent .
PASTON,II,150.325.8942

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Russe hath wryt more pleynlye by Nicholas Colman yerstenday of thys
matere , prayng yow to take thys mater to be remembred yn your speciall
remembraunce , PASTON,II,150.325.8943

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for it were to grete a losse and rebuke that and they shuld have theyr
entent , so grete cost , labour , and peyn as it hath taken .
PASTON,II,150.325.8944

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I charge ryght gretely the mater of my lord of Bedford for my
discharge and for the recuuere of my lord ys godes ,
PASTON,II,150.325.8945

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and y pray yow hertly to comyn wyth my lord Chaunseller at a gode
leyser , and also wyth othyrs , whate remedyes ys best yn thys matere .
PASTON,II,150.325.8946

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as to the processe of Hykelyng that hath so manye yeeres and
<P_II,151> dayes be dryve off yn the lawe to my grete dammage , I pray
yow to remembre sadlye myne atturney Raulyns and my seriauntes to take
more tendernesse yn thys mater , PASTON,II,151.325.8947

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for these iij materes ys the chieff materes that I take moste to hert
amonges all othyrs . PASTON,II,151.325.8948

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow spede Colyn home ayen be-tyme wyth such materes as ye thynk
behofefull . PASTON,II,151.325.8949

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lord kepe yow . PASTON,II,151.325.8950

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt hastly the Seynt John Day Baptiste . PASTON,II,151.325.8951

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_325:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,151.325.8952

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_326> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,151>

{ED:555._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_24_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshypfull and my ry+gt welbelovyd cosyn John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,151.326.8953

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Fyrst , hyt ys to remembre that vppon Seynt John ys Day there was Sir
Symond Brayles , chappleyn of my lady of Suffolk , and yn presence of
Sir Mylys Stapulton and Edward Grymston , seyd that the ij=c=l marc was
payd before yn the Duc off Suffolk dayes , that ys to wete by the seyd
Sir Simond hand c marc and c li. by assignement made to Sir John
Clyffton , and that yn that wyse hyt was wreten vppon the bak of
th'obligacion . As to whych matere I seyd that y wold shew by
sufficient wrytyng and prevys that y was neuere payd before of that
somme , and redy to shew , and that y offred me to put it vppon my lord
Chaunceller and vppon one or two lordes of the Kynges councell as my
seyd lord Chaunceller wolle calle vnto hym , so as it may be knowen
whethyr my seyd lady ys wronged or I ; PASTON,II,151.326.8954

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and thys mocion ye may meove to the seyd Sir Symond .
PASTON,II,151.326.8955

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , to preffe that the c li. parcell of ccl marc was not payd by
assignement made to Clyffton , as Sir Simond alleggyth , y have
sufficient evidenses and record of men that be yhyt on lyve that were
prevye to the v=c= mark that I payd to Sir John Clyffton owte of my
coferes and by my resseyuours , as I have quytaunces and seeles to shew
, so that there neded not , ne I had no cause , to assigne Clyffton to
resseyve c li. of my lord of Suffolk ; PASTON,II,151.326.8956

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for and I had so don the Duc of Suffolk officers most shew an
acquytaunce of that somme vndre Clyffton ys sele , and a wrytyng vndre
my sele directed to my lord to pay to Clyffton yn my name c li. , or
ellys a lettre of myne to <P_II,152> the seyd Clyffton to resseyve it
of my lord ; PASTON,II,152.326.8957

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and none of all thys can be shewed . PASTON,II,152.326.8958

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And seth I payd the v=c= marc cleerly of my cofres and my resseyvours
that were speciallye made by me and commytted for that somme onlye to
pay , hyt had be a vayn dede to make onye assignement vppon that
obligacion the Duc of Suffolk was bounden ynne . PASTON,II,152.326.8959

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , the seyd Sir Simond seyd that the sewte was stole ayenst Sir
Thomas Tuddenham yn the Kynges court , and sodenly jugement yoven , and
yff the councell of my lady had knowen hyt one day before how
th'obligacion , as they surmitten , was rased , that I shuld neuere had
jugement . PASTON,II,152.326.8960

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And y vndrestand by the plee that it was not stolen ,
PASTON,II,152.326.8961

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he , Sir Thomas Tuddenham , had respyt iij wekes day to geve
aunsuer to hys obligacion . PASTON,II,152.326.8962

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And ye see the record ye may know the sooth . PASTON,II,152.326.8963

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The seyd Colyn , berere here-off , can tell yow more playnlye of myne
aunsuers ; PASTON,II,152.326.8964

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as ye thynkyth by your discrecion so to shew the seyd Sir Simond
yff ye thynk it to be doon . PASTON,II,152.326.8965

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt at Castre the Seynt John Day Baptist . PASTON,II,152.326.8966

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,152.326.8967

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I remembred Sir Simond for the restitucion of my reuenues of
Dedham iij yer day and my dammage of a mille put doune for euere off xx
li. yerly ferme for trouth . PASTON,II,152.326.8968

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I payd v=c= marc for the warde of Sir Robert Harlyng doughter
for my lord to Sir John Clyffton , whych the Duc had no ry+gt to
resseyve one penye , PASTON,II,152.326.8969

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for there was no lond hald of the Kyng PASTON,II,152.326.8970

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_326:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and it was yn feffe` handz , as yn myne and othyrs , whych my lady
ought hafe concience offe . PASTON,II,152.326.8971

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_327> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,153>

{ED:557._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_PROBABLY_1456,_29_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Honorabili viro Johanni Paston armigero , ac confratri suo Willelmo
germano vterino . PASTON,II,153.327.8972

<P_II,154>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryte reuerent syre , &c. , I am informyd credybily of a secrete frend
that S. T. T. and J. H. wyth J. A. and o+ter of cursyd covy wyl bryng
wyth hem many gentylmen of here bende to compleyn vp-on me at the next
chapitle , &c. ; PASTON,II,154.327.8973

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there-fore , by the grace of God , I dispose me wyth help of +gour
good maysterschip and my Mayster Willyam +gowr bro+ter . Where-fore ,
at the reuerens of God , that +ge do speke wyth the clerk men clepyn
Brayn that kepyth the bokys of here inditementys at the oyer
determynere A=o= xxix=o= regni Regis , and that an extret or a copy
myte schortly be wrytyn owt of as many namys as dedyn indyte T. T. and
J. H. for trespas , extorsyonys , and oppressyonys done to o+ter men as
wele as to my Mayster Fastolf , &c. , that I may be redy to schew to my
ordre lyk a kalendere a legende of here lyvys and here rewlyng of the
cuntre` in destruccyon and gret myschef of the cuntre` in here dayes .
PASTON,II,154.327.8974

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At the reuerens of Jesu , for+get not this mater , ne the mater of
Dedham , &c . PASTON,II,154.327.8975

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wolde +ge askyd my good lord and mayster Yeluerton yf I sent hym ony
letter in the same mater , &c . PASTON,II,154.327.8976

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dicente Dauitico Psalmo : PASTON,II,154.327.8977

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
' Ne obliuiscaris voces inimicorum tuorum , nam superbia eorum ascendit
semper ' in psalmo , qui et si nunquam ascendant in celos vtinam
nunquam descendant ad abissos , &c. , et si anima eorum in malis
tabescebat . PASTON,II,154.327.8978

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Scriptum festinissime feria tercia post festum Natalis Sancti Johannis
Baptiste . PASTON,II,154.327.8979

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Recommendetis me Magistro meo W. Paston confratri vestro et Thome
Playtere cognato meo , cui dicite quod faciat Willelmum Geneye sibi
benivolum quia Sampson , filius et heres J. Samson olim mariti Katerine
Fastolff apud Owlton mortuus , et ibi sunt due vidue , maior et minor ,
senior et junior . PASTON,II,154.327.8980

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Eligatur que sibi melius placet . PASTON,II,154.327.8981

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Vester ad vota promptissimus , Frater J. B. , Minorum minimus Magister
Thomas Howys vobis amantissimus se cordialissime recommendat <P_II,155>
vobis , &c. PASTON,II,155.327.8982

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , Willelmus Wigorniensis recommendat se vobis ex toto corde .
PASTON,II,155.327.8983

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Scribo vobis vtinam ad placitum . PASTON,II,155.327.8984

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I hafe a rolle redy of the inditementis that they were indityd for
trespase and extorsyon and oppressyon done to my Mayster Fastolff , in
the keping of W. Worceter , &c . PASTON,II,155.327.8985

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Visa frangatur et in ignem post jaciatur . PASTON,II,155.327.8986

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_327:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Si dignemini loqui cum effectu Magistro Ricardo Fysschere , secretario
domini mei Comitis Warwicensis , pro cuius nomine et amore
promptissimus sum ad-huc plura pati , vt mittatur pro me littera
magistro prouinciali et diffinitoribus . PASTON,II,155.327.8987

<Q_PAS_A_1456?_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_328> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,155>

{ED:558._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PERHAPS_1456}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,155.328.8988

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please yow to wete that my maister yn allwyse wille that I ryde to
Dedham to speke wyth Broke aswell as wyth the stuard , and to gefe
aunsuer to Broke yn whate wyse he wille depart for the reuersyn .
PASTON,II,155.328.8989

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He was ryd or I came home . PASTON,II,155.328.8990

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And my maister wille comyn wyth yow for the moyens of a chauntuarye to
be founded of the place ye wote off . PASTON,II,155.328.8991

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y seyd hym such chargeable maters wold be doo betyme to know the
certeyntee . PASTON,II,155.328.8992

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And a grete lak ys yn hym , PASTON,II,155.328.8993

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
he taryeth so long to put all thynges of charge yn a sure wey ;
PASTON,II,155.328.8994

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
hyt ys for lak of sad councell to meove hym . PASTON,II,155.328.8995

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I most be at Castre by Thursday next , PASTON,II,155.328.8996

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I pray yow let me not be lete of my voyage yn-to my contree ;
PASTON,II,155.328.8997

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I shall kepe York-shyre wyth Spyrlyng or such as shall ryde .
PASTON,II,155.328.8998

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The parson wyth yow shall do well sort my maister evidenses ,
PASTON,II,155.328.8999

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and that ys one the grettist thyng nedefull for the seurtee of hys
lyfelode ; PASTON,II,155.328.9000

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so it wold be remembred hym , PASTON,II,155.328.9001

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for now all thyng ys sett at appoynt how it <P_II,156> standyth wyth
hys debtys and officers except that mater of grettist charge , and also
to prouyde for the approwement of hys lyfelode . PASTON,II,156.328.9002

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
W. Botonere PASTON,II,156.328.9003

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , yff ye thynk to don to meofe Clere of the acre lond , but
gefe hym no credence yn the contrarye , PASTON,II,156.328.9004

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I shall preffe it trewe yn my seyng for onye man lyvyng .
PASTON,II,156.328.9005

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He +tat wille dysseyve hys seruaunt yn maryage for so litell a thyng ,
he wold dysseyve another frende yn a gretter thyng .
PASTON,II,156.328.9006

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_328:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He sekyth occasyons and querell to colour hys brekyng off .
PASTON,II,156.328.9007

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_329> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,156>

{ED:559._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_ABOUT_1456}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please yow to wete that , as for ease of my maister tenauntes in Dedham
, yff a lettre were devysed by Maister Geney yn my maister name or
youres to Thomas Higham , one of the justices of pease in Suffolk that
toke the veredyt , he my+gt do grete ease , as yn disavowyng of it or
yn wythdrawyng it owte of the bok . PASTON,II,156.329.9008

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Robert Dene , clerk of the pese , seyth that lete my maister councell
avyse that whych he may do vndammaged hym-sylf , and he wille wyth all
hys hert . PASTON,II,156.329.9009

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
John Bokkyng ys well remembred that my maister caused the seyd Thomas
Hygham , by Maister Geney mocion , to be one of the justice of pease ,
and one Jermyn of Suffolk also . Whych both Hygham and Jermyn hath
suffred my maister hafe , savyng your reuerence , tweyn shrewde tornys
seth that they my+gt hafe letted , as now the seyd Thomas Hygham my+gt
hafe letted the presentment or a moderated othyrwyse , &c .
PASTON,II,156.329.9010

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At reuerence of God , beyth assone as ye may wyth my maister , to ease
hys spyryttes . PASTON,II,156.329.9011

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He questioneth and desputyth wyth hys seruauntes here ,
PASTON,II,156.329.9012

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and wolle not be aunsuerd ne satisfyed som tyme but after hys
wylfullnesse , PASTON,II,156.329.9013

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for hyt suffysyth not our simple wyttes to appease hys soule .
PASTON,II,156.329.9014

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But when he spekyth wyth Maister +Geluerton , yow , or wyth William
Geney , and such othyrs as be autorised yn the law and wyth
haboundaunce of godes , he ys content PASTON,II,156.329.9015

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and haldeth hym pleased wyth your aunsuers and <P_II,157> mocions , as
reson ys that he be . PASTON,II,157.329.9016

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
So wold Jesus one of yow iij or som such othyr yn your stede my+gt hang
at hys gyrdyll dayly to aunsuer hys materes . PASTON,II,157.329.9017

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I had but litille thyng to done when I scrybled thys bille .
PASTON,II,157.329.9018

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_329:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your W. Botonere PASTON,II,157.329.9019

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_330> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,157>

{ED:560._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_31_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my worshipful cousyn John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,157.330.9020

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and worshipful cousyn , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,157.330.9021

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
And like it yow to wyte myn attorny Raulyns hathe enformed me that the
jugis haue ruled processe to goo owte ayenst the Priour of Hikelyng of
distresse per omnia bona et catalla , of whiche the writte and o+ter ar
nought yet come fro London . PASTON,II,157.330.9022

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
I trust whan +tei come be your good counsail and meane the shireve wil
doo his deuoir . PASTON,II,157.330.9023

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
How be it , as I vnderstande , thei haue sente the Lord Scales all
there evidences PASTON,II,157.330.9024

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
and he wil come and dwelle +tere hym-silf . PASTON,II,157.330.9025

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
And I am also enformed for certeyn that the Bushop of Norwiche , for
all +te truste I hadde to hym +tat by his meane I shulde haue knowen
+tere fundacion , he hathe warned his officeres nought to haue a doo
+terjnne by-cause of the Lord Scales , &c . PASTON,II,157.330.9026

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
Cousyn , I pray yow , in as moche as the matere by agrement was putte
in you and Fyncham , and how +tat ye for +te same cause specially kepte
your day at London and toke nought in there defaulte and nought myn ,
that ye wil soo in caas ye see Fyncham remembre , and to o+tere +tere
as ye seme it shulde profite to be knowen , and +tat yet neuertheles
myn sute soo ferforthe I wole yet as I wolde +tanne , and at all tymes
am redy . PASTON,II,157.330.9027

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
And soo I wolde the Priour knewe , and all o+tere as weel his
weelwillers as o+teres , as the bringer herof shall declare you more
pleinly . PASTON,II,157.330.9028

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
As for tidinges , myn folkes ar nought yet come fro London .
PASTON,II,157.330.9029

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
The Abbot of Seint Benettes hathe ben with me , PASTON,II,157.330.9030

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
and suche as he tolde me the bringer shall enforme you .
PASTON,II,157.330.9031

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
And Our Lord Jesu haue you in gouernaunce . PASTON,II,157.330.9032

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Castre the last day of Jull . PASTON,II,157.330.9033

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_330:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER
Your cousyn J. F. PASTON,II,157.330.9034

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_331> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,158>

{ED:561._FROM_THOMAS_LORD_SCALES_1456,_11_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusty and interly welbeloued frend John Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,158.331.9035

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and enterly welbeloued frend , I grete you well ,
PASTON,II,158.331.9036

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and wull +ge wite that Danyell hath required me to write vn-to you
praying you that +ge wyll kepe the day upon Thursday vij dayes nexst
comyng , which shal be for the best , as I trust .
PASTON,II,158.331.9037

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Notwithstandyng I suppose lerned men wyll not be easy for to gete
be-cause of this besy tyme of $hervest . PASTON,II,158.331.9038

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty God haue you in hise gouernaunce . PASTON,II,158.331.9039

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Mydelton the xj day of August . PASTON,II,158.331.9040

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_331:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Gowr frend Scales PASTON,II,158.331.9041

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_332> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,159>

{ED:563._FROM_LORD_SCALES_ABOUT_1456,_20_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued frend John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,159.332.9042

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you hertly well .
PASTON,II,159.332.9043

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for as mych as I $vnderstand a bill was made at Yermuth ageyns my
cousyn Bryan Stapylton and hise wy PASTON,II,159.332.9044

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<em> ... </em> haue set up +te said bill in +te Kynges Bench , which
bill is in your kepyng , $praying you that +ge wyll sende me the same
bill be +te bringer herof to +te entent I $may se it .
PASTON,II,159.332.9045

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as I am infourmed be my said cousyn +ge shewed hym grete
$gentilnesse and benyvolence , wherof I thanke you right hertely .
PASTON,II,159.332.9046

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray God haue you in gouernance . PASTON,II,159.332.9047

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Midelton the xx day of Septembre . PASTON,II,159.332.9048

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:57?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_332:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Gowr frend Scales PASTON,II,159.332.9049

<Q_PAS_A_1456_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_333> <A_THOMAS_HOWES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,159>

{ED:564._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_PROBABLY_1456,_6_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right goode maister John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,159.333.9050

<P_II,160>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Reuerent ser , &c. Please yow to wete that it {ED:is}_BEP so that my
maister of his owen frowardnes and of non othere mannys mevyng hat sent
a warent to Cristefore that he shuld delyuer me no mony tyll the
iiij=xx= li. where payed for Bokkyng and Wurcestre patent , and yf the
seyd Cristefore delyuered me any mony that he shuld take a sewerte` of
me therfor . PASTON,II,160.333.9051

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nowthwythstandyng my maister preyed me that I shuld reherce alle thynge
in my name , where-of I held me content . PASTON,II,160.333.9052

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And now I fele this traytours wrytyng vnderenethe ,
PASTON,II,160.333.9053

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I nowth prevy there-to at my comyng owt , causet me to thynk the
more heuynes , &c . PASTON,II,160.333.9054

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelez I prey yow that a mene may be taken of trety by the mene of
Clopton , PASTON,II,160.333.9055

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
or ellys sende me word PASTON,II,160.333.9056

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I shal seke menys of trety ; PASTON,II,160.333.9057

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for be God I shal trust no more no fayre wordys ,
PASTON,II,160.333.9058

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there-to I shal lete alle +te lordys of this lond knowe what
wrytyngys I have and his disposicion . PASTON,II,160.333.9059

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Save yowre reuerens , Cristyfor shal have swyche a maister , &c .
PASTON,II,160.333.9060

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I prey yow as euer I may do yow service or be yowre bedeman that ye
wele sende me yowre avise . PASTON,II,160.333.9061

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I had leuer paye xx marke or x li. jn hande and x li. yerely forth wyth
myn enemyndz good love than to yelde me to preson a-yens here entent
and sewe forth the tyncte . PASTON,II,160.333.9062

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And no trost what my maister wele do , PASTON,II,160.333.9063

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I can right evele beleve that he wele bere owt the cost of +te
tyncte whan he maket straunge to ley dowun the condempnacion , &c .
PASTON,II,160.333.9064

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn brevely at Horseydown +te Wenesday after {ED:Michel} messe A=o=
xxxv=to= . PASTON,II,160.333.9065

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
T. Howys PASTON,II,160.333.9066

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I shal nowt leve this mater to serve the most enemy that he hat in
Inglond . PASTON,II,160.333.9067

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wele non of his good . PASTON,II,160.333.9068

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_333:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I have leuer other men go to +te duele for his good than I , &c .
PASTON,II,160.333.9069

<Q_PAS_A_1456_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_334> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,161>

{ED:565._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_1456,_8_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To myn right worshipful Maister John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,161.334.9070

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipful ser and myn good maister , I recomaunde me to yow ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9071

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and haue receyvid a lettre from yow by Ser Thomas is man , berer
here-of . PASTON,II,161.334.9072

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the accions bothe-1 of rauishement and +t'attachement , the
declaracions ar made tunc soluend ' and nought solut ' and as moche
amendid as we can or may be fauour haue amendid .
PASTON,II,161.334.9073

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
We hadde be beguyled and +tei hadde nought be sen in Norffolk ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9074

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for here til this day come noo counsaill ; PASTON,II,161.334.9075

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and to haue per manus Johannis Wyngfelde it wole not be ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9076

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for we can nought bringe it jnne PASTON,II,161.334.9077

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and also it is to late . PASTON,II,161.334.9078

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for iiij=xx= li. , Fen and I mette with Worsop +tis day ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9079

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he spake soore to Fen and me PASTON,II,161.334.9080

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and we put hym ouere , sayng we wolde doo as moche as we myghte .
PASTON,II,161.334.9081

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I +tinke verily +tat Fen wole deserue +ter-jnne a +tanke ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9082

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I can nought vnderstande hym what he wolde be doon to or how
rewardid , PASTON,II,161.334.9083

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for whanne I speke of it he is desplesid PASTON,II,161.334.9084

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seithe he desirith noo rewarde ; PASTON,II,161.334.9085

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he farith as a man wole sey he wole noo siluere , lokith awaywardes
and takith a noble . PASTON,II,161.334.9086

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he hath writen to yow of +te matere of Ser Philip Wentworth
touchyng +tis writte of liberate , whiche is but a color and noo warant
sufficient , PASTON,II,161.334.9087

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ner we owe nought to doo noo +tinge +tat shuld obeye it ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9088

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ner +te shireve no+ter dothe but of fauour +tat he dothe to hem and hym
liste o+terwise to doo , as Fen writith yow more pleinly .
PASTON,II,161.334.9089

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for a supersedies +tere lithe noon , as he seith , vp-on a
liberate . PASTON,II,161.334.9090

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for entryng in Bradwell , +tei doo opyn wronge ,
PASTON,II,161.334.9091

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for after myn patent opteyned +tere was a writte to sease it in-to +te
Kynges hande , PASTON,II,161.334.9092

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and soo it was and is . PASTON,II,161.334.9093

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as to your patent , it is counsailed me to haue a writte to
+t'eschetour de custodia liberanda , whiche may nought be denyed ;
PASTON,II,161.334.9094

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if we myght haue vna cum exitibus a tempore mortis it were a
souereigne writte . PASTON,II,161.334.9095

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} assaied and doo +tertoo what can .
PASTON,II,161.334.9096

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Lete +te fermours be promised to be saued harmeles and chargid nought
to paie ony +ting to +tem . PASTON,II,161.334.9097

<P_II,162>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for +te iiij=xx= li. to be sette on Oliuere is taile , I can
nought see it wole be PASTON,II,162.334.9098

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for +tere is noo suche worlde to bringe it abowte .
PASTON,II,162.334.9099

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is faire PASTON,II,162.334.9100

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and we can ghete it on $Fulthorp {TEXT:Fulthop} is dette by grete
labour for agrement , PASTON,II,162.334.9101

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I drede it wole be moste agayn vs +tat it is of recorde soo longe
vnpaied . PASTON,II,162.334.9102

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Hue at Fen sueth now to Nailer to ghete owte moo liberates suche as
+te last were to +te laste eschetour ; PASTON,II,162.334.9103

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tis God graunte thei take good spede . PASTON,II,162.334.9104

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as to your jsseus , I shal accordyng to your lettre speke with
Gresham whanne he cometh , PASTON,II,162.334.9105

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +te juges and barons bo+te $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} enformed of +te
title of Wentworthe as ye write , and how it is vp-on a feyned dede
vp-on a patent $surrenderid {TEXT:surrendid} and cancelled , &c. ,
whiche Fen hath promisid to doo . PASTON,II,162.334.9106

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as to Ser Thomas matier , I write vn-to yow and hym ioinctly what
hathe be doon +terjnne at +tis tyme . PASTON,II,162.334.9107

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Jesu haue yow in kepyng . PASTON,II,162.334.9108

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Suthwerk the viij day of Octobre . PASTON,II,162.334.9109

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As to tidinges , +te Kyng and +te Quene ar at Couentre` .
PASTON,II,162.334.9110

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te Counsail beganne +tere yesterday ; PASTON,II,162.334.9111

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and my Lord Shrewyshbury Tresorier of England , PASTON,II,162.334.9112

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and John Wode $shall $be {TEXT:shalb} {ED:e} Vndertresorer .
PASTON,II,162.334.9113

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Tus +tei say in +te Chequer . PASTON,II,162.334.9114

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_334:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your owen J. B. PASTON,II,162.334.9115

<Q_PAS_A_1456?_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_335> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,162>

{ED:566._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PERHAPS_1456,_12_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,162.335.9116

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please yow to wete that I hafe remembred of the langage that I hafe
late lerned W. Barker had to yow and othyrs of hys accomptes apposyng ,
and that they be not hole bethyn ws , but yn diuision , &c .
PASTON,II,162.335.9117

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , as I may sey yow , hyt was neuere othyrwyse ,
PASTON,II,162.335.9118

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ne neuere ys lyke to be ; PASTON,II,162.335.9119

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for now they hafe do wyth Lowys , he that ys next shall be yn the same
as he was yn <P_II,163> gelosye . PASTON,II,163.335.9120

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For when my maister commaundyth such as of force by reson of her
occupacion most be nere hym to do a message to hys felow , or question
of hym , hyt shall be ymagyned amonges our felyshyp that he doth make
maters to my maister ; PASTON,II,163.335.9121

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so it ys ymagyned of me when I wryte lettres to London to Bokkyng
or Barker , that yn such materes as please hem not , then it ys my
doyng ; PASTON,II,163.335.9122

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
yff it take well to theyr entent , then it ys her doyng .
PASTON,II,163.335.9123

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And yn gode feyth so it was ymagyned of me and othyrs that wrote by my
maister commaundment to Castre , to the parson of Blofeld , Geffrey
Spyrlyng , and othyrs , that of such materes as was lykyng to hem and
coude be sped by help of my maister frendes as by theyr solicytyng ,
then it was seyd that it was theyr avice , labour , and doyng ;
PASTON,II,163.335.9124

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yff the maters went not to my maister entent , ne that they coude
not bryng aboute the mater , then it was jmagyned and jangled that it
was my wrytyng and doyng . PASTON,II,163.335.9125

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I bare neuere my maister purs , PASTON,II,163.335.9126

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ne condyt neuere chargeable mater alone of hys yn lawe ,
PASTON,II,163.335.9127

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for my discrecion ne connyng know not whate such materes menyth .
PASTON,II,163.335.9128

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I knew neuere of oyer ne terminer , PASTON,II,163.335.9129

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ne rad neuere patent before , PASTON,II,163.335.9130

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ne my maister knew neuere the condyt of such thynges ;
PASTON,II,163.335.9131

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and when he wrote of hys grevonse to hys frendys he commaunded no man
to be endyted PASTON,II,163.335.9132

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he wyst not whate belonged to such thynges , ne the parson neyther
, PASTON,II,163.335.9133

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but remitted it to hys councell lerned . PASTON,II,163.335.9134

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
There was no man gretter at hert wyth hym , as Andreus wyth Heydon ,
because of castyng Bradwell and Tychewell yn the Kynges handes ,
PASTON,II,163.335.9135

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and toke awey the waarde . PASTON,II,163.335.9136

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I came neuere at the oyer and terminere . PASTON,II,163.335.9137

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
By God , my maister lost c marc by a seute of Margyt Bryg vppon a
defence of atteynt because a quest passed ayenst hyr of xij penyworth
lond by yeere ; PASTON,II,163.335.9138

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I dar sey , and prefe it , my maister neuere spake of hyr , ne knew
hyr not , ne wrote to sew hyr at the oyer and terminere , as I am
remembred . PASTON,II,163.335.9139

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yhyt yt was well deffended at my maister grete cost and labour and myne
pore labour also . PASTON,II,163.335.9140

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yhyt ought not I , ne none such yn my stede , beere the wyte wyth Ser
Thomas ne none othyr . PASTON,II,163.335.9141

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He thate takyth the tolle most take the charge ; PASTON,II,163.335.9142

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
hyt ys hys negligence that wille take the labour more then he may awey
. PASTON,II,163.335.9143

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wold the parson ys wellfare asmoch as man lyvyng , to my wreched
power , PASTON,II,163.335.9144

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yff or when ye hyre onye froward ymagynacions I pray yow gefe no
credence tille ye hyre it aunsuerd . PASTON,II,163.335.9145

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I am eased of my spyrytes now that I hafe expressed my leude menyng
because of my felow Barker , as of such othyr berkers ayenst the mone ,
to make wysemen laugh at her folye . PASTON,II,163.335.9146

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Our Lord kepe yow . PASTON,II,163.335.9147

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt at Castre the xij day of Octobre . PASTON,II,163.335.9148

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your W. Botonere PASTON,II,163.335.9149

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I hafe and do purchasse malgre` to remembre of evidenses lakkyng by
negligence , &c. , PASTON,II,163.335.9150

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and therfor I most be muet and suffre gretter losses but it <P_II,164>
be othyrwyse concydered . PASTON,II,164.335.9151

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I sende yow the copy of your patentes in parchement ,
PASTON,II,164.335.9152

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I hafe remembred as well as I can both the stuard and Bertilmeu
Elys for execucion ayenst the plegges of your Seyntmarye carpenter Snow
, that euere ys disposed to breke promysses . PASTON,II,164.335.9153

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Foryefe me of my leude lettre wrytyng , PASTON,II,164.335.9154

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:41?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35?
LETTER:PASTON_335:M4:1456?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I pray yow laugh at it . PASTON,II,164.335.9155

<Q_PAS_A_1456_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_336> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,164>

{ED:567._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1456,_16_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull $and myn especiall maister John $Paston
, esquyer , in hast be this delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,164.336.9156

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
After al due recomendacion , like it you to wete +tat +te day of your
assise is die lune proximo post tres septimanas Sancti Michelis ,
whiche is on Moneday come vij nyght ; at whiche tyme I trost ye wole be
here , PASTON,II,164.336.9157

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
or ellis can I do lytell or nought +ter-inne . PASTON,II,164.336.9158

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng your matier ageynst Gunnore , +tat dwelleth in lawe , I
haue spoken to Lyttelton and comuned wyth hym +terin ,
PASTON,II,164.336.9159

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but it is not yet spoke of atte barre . PASTON,II,164.336.9160

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Gunnore hath waged his lawe of +tat he hadde his day to wage it of , &c
. PASTON,II,164.336.9161

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng your issues at Wentworth sute , it is ij s .
PASTON,II,164.336.9162

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it was retourned er I come here . PASTON,II,164.336.9163

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My Maister Fastolfes councell taketh heed +terto , &c .
PASTON,II,164.336.9164

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for tydyngges , my lord Chaunceler is discharged
PASTON,II,164.336.9165

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and in his stede is my lord of Wynchestre . PASTON,II,164.336.9166

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my lord of Shrewisbury is Tresorer ; PASTON,II,164.336.9167

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Broun of your Inn is Vndirtresorer ; PASTON,II,164.336.9168

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
if ye wold send to hym to graunte you +te namyng of th'eschetourship of
Norffolk , &c. , it wer weel do , PASTON,II,164.336.9169

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it is told me he wold do meche for you . PASTON,II,164.336.9170

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Maister Laurence Bothe is Preue` Seall . PASTON,II,164.336.9171

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is seid +tat my lord of York hath be wyth +te Kyng and is departed
ageyn in right good conceyt wyth +te Kyng , but not in gret conceyt
wyth +te Whene ; PASTON,II,164.336.9172

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sum men sey ne hadde my lord of Bukyngham not haue letted it my
lord of York had be distressed in his departyng .
PASTON,II,164.336.9173

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
On Moneday last passed was a gret affray at Couentre` bytwene +te Duke
of Somerset men and +te wechemen of +te toun , PASTON,II,164.336.9174

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ij or iij men of <P_II,165> the toun wer kylled +tere , to gret
disturbance of alle +te lordes there ; PASTON,II,165.336.9175

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for +te larom belle was ronge PASTON,II,165.336.9176

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +te toun a-rose PASTON,II,165.336.9177

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wold haue ioupardit to haue distressed +te Duke of Somerset , &c. ,
ne had +te Duke of Bukyngham not haue take a direccion +terin .
PASTON,II,165.336.9178

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also it is seid +te Duke of Bukyngham takith right straungely that
bothe his brethren arn so sodeynly discharged from ther officez of
Chauncellerie and Tresoryship , PASTON,II,165.336.9179

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tat among othir causeth hym that his opynyon ys contrary to +te
Whenes entent and many o+ter also , as it is talked .
PASTON,II,165.336.9180

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , sum men seyn +te Counseal is disolued and +tat +te Kyng is forth
to Chester , &c . PASTON,II,165.336.9181

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also summe sey +tat many of +te lordes shall resorte hiddir to London
a-geynst Alhalwen tyde . PASTON,II,165.336.9182

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as touchyng th'elecion of shirefes , men wene +tat my lord of
Canterbury shall haue a gret rule , and specyall in our cuntre` .
PASTON,II,165.336.9183

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can nomore , PASTON,II,165.336.9184

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but Almyghty God send us as his most pleaser is .
PASTON,II,165.336.9185

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn al in hast the Saterday next after Seint Edwardes Day .
PASTON,II,165.336.9186

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt James Gresham PASTON,II,165.336.9187

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng my Maister Clementes $letters , Halle is in-to his cuntre`
. PASTON,II,165.336.9188

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And de la Reuer hath bothe his letter and Halles letter ,
PASTON,II,165.336.9189

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but truly <em> I coude not </em> yet haue answer of hym not
wythstandyng I haue be $at Cliffordes Inne iiij tymes <em> +terfor ...
</em> not fyend hym in . PASTON,II,165.336.9190

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_336:M4:1456:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And als sone as I can haue answer it shall be sent to you .
PASTON,II,165.336.9191

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_337> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,165>

{ED:568._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_10_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my worshipfull cosyn John Paston be this lettre delyuered .
</font> PASTON,II,165.337.9192

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshipful and my right trusty cosyn , I comaunde me to yow ,
PASTON,II,165.337.9193

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and pray yow that ye wil take the labour in the ende of the terme to
come homward by Dedham , and William Worcestre and Barker with yow ,
that ye may see +te accompt taken +tere of +te barly and suche
husbondrye as is vsed <P_II,166> there , for I drede that it farith
with me there as in o+ter places ; and that ye wil appoynte a day to be
+tere and lete me knowe it , that I may sende a man +tidre to mete with
yow with +te laste accomptes . PASTON,II,166.337.9194

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for Wighton in Yorkshire , Bokkyng hathe remembrid me how that
ye spake to me that my sone Scrope and hise fadre in lawe shuld haue
all +te lyuelode of my wifes in ferme , to whiche I am wele remembrid
+tat I was agreed ; and elles that +te Lord Vescy wolde haue Wighton ,
as he hadde sumtyme , to ferme for xxxiiij li. or +tereupon , whiche is
moche more money +tanne I make it worthe yerly . PASTON,II,166.337.9195

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +terfore I pray yow doo +terjnne as ye +tinkyn moste to myn aduaile
. PASTON,II,166.337.9196

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I hadde levest my sone Scrope hadde it , with suche suerte` founden as
ye cowde thinke sufficient for me in +tat bihalue . And if ye take noon
appoyntement with hym , +tat +tanne the Lord Vescy haue it , beyng
bounde to cherishe +te tenauntes and supporte +tem and meyntenyng ,
levyng it in as good plighte as {in}_P he shall receyve it , or bettyr
, as my right trusty frende and youres , John Grenefeld , mevid yow ;
PASTON,II,166.337.9197

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and this I wold the rather for his good mocion . PASTON,II,166.337.9198

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I pray yow to +tanke hym on my parte for his good will in all my
materes , the whiche and all youres I pray God sende right good spede
and yow right wele to fare . PASTON,II,166.337.9199

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Castre the x day of Nouembre . PASTON,II,166.337.9200

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,166.337.9201

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_337:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , cosyn , I pray yow +tat ye will comon with William Worcestre to
see , by +te meane of myn lord of Caunterbury or o+terwise , +tat
Maister William Clyf and o+ter of +t'excecutours of John Wellis may be
spoken with for +te recouere of grete good +tat , as Worcestre knowith
weel , it may be preuid +tat +te seid Wellys ought me in his lyve , &c.
, +tat I myght knowe sum answere +terof in myn daies ; and +tat my lord
of Caunterbury may knowe and be prevy +tertoo . PASTON,II,166.337.9202

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_338> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,166>

{ED:569._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_PROBABLY_1456,_15_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshipful and my right trusty and wel-beloued cosyn John
Paston at +te Temple . </font> PASTON,II,166.338.9203

<P_II,167>

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshipful cosyn , I comaunde me to yow . PASTON,II,167.338.9204

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And like it yow to wyte that I receyvid by Henre` Hansson on Thorsday
last passid at iiij after none certeyn lettres , amonges whiche I
receyvid on from William Barker writen of Lukettes hande , and ij
billes of supplicacions , of whiche on in the tenauntes names of Cotton
I sente as I wrote vn-to yow and my seruauntes there .
PASTON,II,167.338.9205

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Vp-on the sight of +te same lettre and billes John Russe with Geffrey
Sperlyng riden to Cotton to fulfille parte , or as moche as +tei myght
, of th'entente of +te same lettre touchyng +te first article ,
PASTON,II,167.338.9206

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as thei spedde +tere +tei writen , as I vnderstande ,
PASTON,II,167.338.9207

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and sent vn-to yow from Cotton ; wherjnne I pray God spede yow ,
PASTON,II,167.338.9208

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for me +tinkith the bille and the matier right good and weel spoken
accordyng to the trouthe of +teire riotous demenyng .
PASTON,II,167.338.9209

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And also I receyvid the same tyme ano+ter bille in my name to be putte
by whiche I like right weel , PASTON,II,167.338.9210

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and thinke verily by all lyklynesse that +te bothe billes shall doo
moche good , PASTON,II,167.338.9211

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and grete pite` were but if +tei shuld be putte vp to th'entente +tere
demenyng shuld be knowen and vnderstanden . PASTON,II,167.338.9212

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I haue lerned that +tere were at +te distresse takyng yonge Henre`
Wentworth , yonge Calthorp , and yonge Brews , amonge diuerse and many
o+ter , &c . PASTON,II,167.338.9213

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as to the tretye , I knowe for certeyn ye wil nought demesne me in
+tat bihalve o+terwise +tanne as conscience requirith , doynge therjnne
as ye wolde for yowre-self , ayenst whiche I may nought be ,
consideryng +te grete truste I haue vn-to yow , but to holde me
contentid as ye doo , forsene in ony wise that I haue ayen +te manere
of Bradwell by sum meane as clere as I hadde it by-fore myn vnhappy
relees made . PASTON,II,167.338.9214

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
This how sum euere ye doo , PASTON,II,167.338.9215

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ye knowe weel howgh +te Chif Justice of England , as I am enformed
, rectid the matier in Parlement by-fore +te Lordes , where and what
tyme he declarid my wronge in +tat +tat +te office was soo vntrewly
founden that I shuld haue disseasid Ser Hue Fastolf of +te manere ,
where as I haue sufficent evidences preuyng a trewe saale and purchace
, how I hadde it of hym , as ye +tanne and by-fore ful plenly hadde
answerid for me more clerly +tanne I can write at +tis tyme , &c .
PASTON,II,167.338.9216

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , cosyn , I pray yow in as moche as here hathe ben my lady of York
, and soore mevid me for +te purchas of Castre , that ye wil assay to
fynde the meanes how I myght beste be spedde for the licence of
morteisyng <P_II,168> certein lyuelode , as ye and I haue comound of
be-fore , to th'entente of +te fundacion of a college .
PASTON,II,168.338.9217

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
William Worcestre can shewe a copie of oon +tat ones was spedde and
passid by +te Kyng and signed redy to the Chaunceller +tat +tanne was
Stafford , &c . PASTON,II,168.338.9218

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I pray you acqueynte me and you with ij chapeleyns daily abought my
lord of Caunterbury and my lord Chaunceller , to be remembrauncers .
PASTON,II,168.338.9219

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , William Barker writith vn-to me at +tis tyme ayen of a generall
tretye , wherof I haue moche meruaile PASTON,II,168.338.9220

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I can gif non answere ferther +tanne I haue writen +terupon vnto my
cosyn Yeluerton and yow , and also vn-to +te seid Barker in like wise ;
PASTON,II,168.338.9221

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for as ye doo I haue seid PASTON,II,168.338.9222

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and shall fully conforme me to the rule and disposicion of yow tweyn ,
as ye wole aduise me to be guydid in +tat and all o+tere materes , to
youre grete peyne , for whiche I pray God rewarde yow and haue yow in
gouernaunce . PASTON,II,168.338.9223

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Castre the Monday next aftyr Seint Martyn .
PASTON,II,168.338.9224

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,168.338.9225

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , cosyn , William Barker writith vn-to me that he hath delyuered
yow Raf Woodrove is obligacion . PASTON,II,168.338.9226

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ye like to sende me the certeynte` , PASTON,II,168.338.9227

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I wolde knowe it . PASTON,II,168.338.9228

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I sende yow at +tis tyme a double of +te rolle of +te chekwetche
, +tat ye may if ye wole sue for a commission to suche men as your
wisdom semeth good in +te contre` that ar myghti and may be-stere +tem
, PASTON,II,168.338.9229

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_338:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for Roger Ormesby tolde me ye wolde soo and ye hadde a copie of a
commission . PASTON,II,168.338.9230

<Q_PAS_C_1456_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_339> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,168>

{ED:570._SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_TO_PASTON_OR_BARKER_PROBABLY_1456,_18_NO
VEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshipful and my right welbeloued cosyn John Paston at
the Temple or to William Barker at Suthwerk be +tis deliuered . </font>
PASTON,II,168.339.9231

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Worshipful cosyn , I comaunde me to yow . PASTON,II,168.339.9232

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as I late wrote vn-to yow in a lettre by Henre` Hansson for
the fundacion of my college , I am soore sette therupon ;
PASTON,II,168.339.9233

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and that is the cause I write now to remembre yow agayn to meve my
lordes of Caunterbury and Wynchestre for the licence to be opteyned
that I myght haue the morteisyng , withowte ony grete fyne in
recompence of my longe seruise contynued and doon vn-to <P_II,169> the
Kyng and to his noble fader , whom God assoile , and neuere yette
guerdoonned or rewardid . PASTON,II,169.339.9234

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And now sithe I haue ordeyned to make the Kyng foundour and euere to be
praied for , and for his right noble progenitours , hise fader and
vncles , me thinketh I shuld nought be denyed of my desire , but the
rather to be remembrid and spedde . Wherfore , as I wrote vn-to yow , I
pray yow acqueynte me and yow , for +te rather spede here-of , with a
chapelleyn of myn lord of Caunterbure` that in your abcence may
remembre me , and in like wise with my lord Chaunceller ;
PASTON,II,169.339.9235

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for seyng the Kynkes disposicion , and also hise , vn-to the edifyeng
of God is seruice it myght in noo bettyr tyme be mevid , &c .
PASTON,II,169.339.9236

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the mater of the warde , I receyvid a lettre on Thorsday
at nyght +tat come from William Barker , writen the xiiij day of
Nouembre , wherjnne in maner he arrettith a defaulte +tat the lettre of
my lord of Norffolk for the peticion of +te men of Cotton was nought
spedde . PASTON,II,169.339.9237

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I dide +tat was most necessarie as me thought at +te tyme of his first
writyng , PASTON,II,169.339.9238

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I sende as I wrote vn-to yow : PASTON,II,169.339.9239

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
vp-on +te sight of his lettre I sent Sperlyng and Russe to Cotton
PASTON,II,169.339.9240

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tere toke of +te tenauntes suerte`s +tat +tei shuld aduowe and be
demesned in all sutes as I wolde , and what bestes were deliuered ayen
, PASTON,II,169.339.9241

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and soo sent +tei writyng from +tens to yow , of whiche I haue non
answere nore whethir it was wele doon or noo , ner what spede at +tis
tyme was in the tretyes or nought . PASTON,II,169.339.9242

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It is soo that be-fore +te first writyng of +tis matere my lord was
remevid from Framlyngham on foote to goo to Walsyngham ,
PASTON,II,169.339.9243

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and daily I wayte , as Suthwell seid vn-to +te parson of Filby , +tat
he wolde come hidre . PASTON,II,169.339.9244

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Neuere +te lesse I haue now sente John Russe and a man of Cotton to
seke my lord where +tei may fynde hym , PASTON,II,169.339.9245

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as +tei spede ye shall haue as hasty worde as I may or can sende
vn-to yow . PASTON,II,169.339.9246

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +tat ye like to sende me worde what day ye haue appointid to be at
Dedham , if ye may easily attende it . PASTON,II,169.339.9247

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I beseche Jesu be with yow . PASTON,II,169.339.9248

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Castre the xviij day of Nouembre . PASTON,II,169.339.9249

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,169.339.9250

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:78?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:35
LETTER:PASTON_339:M4:1456:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And if ony appoyntement take ye I pray yow +tat it may be worshipful
bothe-1 for you and me , and my manere of Bradwell saued me clerly , &c
. PASTON,II,169.339.9251

<Q_PAS_A_1457_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_340> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,170>

{ED:571._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1457,_20_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,170.340.9252

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please yow to wete that , after dew recommendacion , hyt ys so that my
maister sendyth me to London for the mater of Rochestre , as for dyuers
of hys oune particuler maters whych concern not the lawe , &c .
PASTON,II,170.340.9253

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I am lyke to tarye there till ye com , jn case ye com $wythynne iij
wekys . PASTON,II,170.340.9254

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , at reuerence of God , seth my maister ys fully yn wille to renew
hys feffment , that it may be do be-tyme by the surest grounde that may
be had , PASTON,II,170.340.9255

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for be it nevyr so suerly doon hyt shall be thought lytille ynowgh to
kepe hys lond owte of trouble ; and to spare for no councell ne cost to
make it sure , PASTON,II,170.340.9256

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for a peny yn seson spent wille safe a pounde . PASTON,II,170.340.9257

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I comyned wyth my bro+tere Spyrlyng , whych seyth he wille do hys
attendaunce and to kepe it ry+gt close of the namys .
PASTON,II,170.340.9258

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Taryeng drawyth parell . PASTON,II,170.340.9259

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ye meved a gode matere to the parson and to me at your last beyng
at Castre , that my maister shuld be lerned whate hys housold standyth
vppon yerlye seth he kept it holye to-ghedre at one place , and that
don , then to see by the reuenues of hys yeerly lyfelode whate may be
leyd and assigned owte for that cause to meynteyn hys seyd housold ,
and over that whate may be assigned to beere owte hys plees and also to
pay for hys foreyn charges and dedes of almes to a conuenyent somme .
PASTON,II,170.340.9260

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And seth the grettist ordynarye charge most be hys housold kepyng , hyt
were moste exspedyent that ye wold note well to remembre specially my
maister to do hys audytours cast and make rollys of hys accomptes
concernyng the seyd housold seth he came yn-to Norffolk thys ij yere
and half , whych was nevyr so long to doo thys xl wyntere as ys now .
PASTON,II,170.340.9261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And it ys pytee that hys audyt ys none othyrwyse yn that entended .
PASTON,II,170.340.9262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye must nedys , yff ye wille my maister know how hyt stand wyth hym
yerly of hys charges , that thys be do fyrst , as it was allwey
acustomed . PASTON,II,170.340.9263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maister wille acord it to be don , PASTON,II,170.340.9264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but it ys foryete throwgh negligence of men yoven to sensualite` , as
Thomas Vpton , me , and othyrs . PASTON,II,170.340.9265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maister can not know whe+tere he go bakward or forward till thys be
doon . PASTON,II,170.340.9266

<P_II,171>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I can not ell , PASTON,II,171.340.9267

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ye wille not foryete thys that the audytours go verrayly aboute it
to an ende . PASTON,II,171.340.9268

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Haylysdon accomptes be behynde for ij yeere ;
PASTON,II,171.340.9269

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
to grete pite` ys and it were youres , or yn any wyseman gouuernaunce .
PASTON,II,171.340.9270

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
At Norwich hastly the Wensday in Esterweke . PASTON,II,171.340.9271

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_340:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Boto-nere PASTON,II,171.340.9272

<Q_PAS_A_1457_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_341> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,171>

{ED:572._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_1457,_1_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worshypfull ser , John Paston , escuier , beyng in
Norwych , yn haste . </font> PASTON,II,171.341.9273

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshypfull ser , aftyr dewe recommendacion please yow to wete
that I wrote a remembraunce to yow the day that I departed owte of
Norwich by Richard , the parson ys seruaunt of Blofeld , concernyng
certeyn materes to be remembred by your wysdom for my maister ys
avaylle , whych your grete wysdom can well vndrestand ys ryght nedefull
; as one thyng yn especiall , that Shypdam and Spyrlyng ought to labour
fyrst of onye thyng that belongyth to audyt the accomptes of the
resseyt and despenses of my maister housold at Castre seth he come last
in-to Norffolk , {TEXT:whych} aswell for the prouisyons that ys had of
hys oune growyng as in money payd . PASTON,II,171.341.9274

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For till the seyd accomptes be made ordynatlye , whych be of a grete
charge yeerlye , wete ye for certeyn my maister shall neuere know
whethyr he goth bakward or forward . PASTON,II,171.341.9275

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And manye o+tere accomptantes that maken lyuere` of prouysyons of
cornys and catell to the household by the resseyuour and by the
bayllyfs can not approve theyr liberatz just tille the seyd housold
bokes be made vpp . PASTON,II,171.341.9276

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And seth it hath be kept ordynarylye seth my maister began to kepe
house thys 1 yeere almoste , and when he hath be absent beyond see ,
&c. , hyt ought be more redelyere {TEXT:be} doon and made vpp whyle he
ys present , and well the ra+tere that hys housold menye were not so
hole to-ghedre thys xl yere as be now at Castre .
PASTON,II,171.341.9277

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also hys ministres of accomptes of hys chieff manere of Haylysdon for
iij yeere to make vpp and to examyn ; PASTON,II,171.341.9278

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I ensure yow full simplye approwed hys wollys and hys fermys .
PASTON,II,171.341.9279

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the iij=d= ys that so wold Jesus my maister audytours wold
faythfully <P_II,172> and playnlye enforme my maistre of the trouth of
the yeerly grete damage he beryth in debursyng hys money aboute shyppes
and botes , kepyng an house vp at Jermuth to hys grete harme and
resseyvyth but chaffre and waare for hys cornys and wollys , &c. , and
then most abyde a long day to make money of such chafre takyng .
PASTON,II,172.341.9280

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He shall neuere be monyed , ne be aunsuerd clerly of hys reuenues
yeerly , but those thynges abofeseyd be amended be-tyme .
PASTON,II,172.341.9281

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yn Lowys days xij yeere to-ghedre my maister was wont to ley vpp money
yeerly at London and Castre , and now the contrarye , de malo in pejus
. PASTON,II,172.341.9282

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I dar not be know of thys bille , PASTON,II,172.341.9283

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but ye may question and vele of the disposicion of thys maters of
o+teres , and $then vndrestand yff I wryt justlye or no ;
PASTON,II,172.341.9284

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and ye , as of your mocion for my maister worshyp and proffyt ,
exortyng hym , the stuard , Shypdam , and Spyrlyng to take a labour and
a peyn that thys be reformed . PASTON,II,172.341.9285

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your Botonere PASTON,II,172.341.9286

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow and require yow kepe thys mater to your-sylf .
PASTON,II,172.341.9287

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As for nouuelte`s none couth , but yt ys seyd the sege shall com to
Calix . PASTON,II,172.341.9288

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Erle of Warwyk ys yhyt at Caunterbury wyth the Archbysshop
PASTON,II,172.341.9289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<em> ... </em> and the Erle yonger bro+tere maryed to Ser Eedmund
Yngylthorp doughter vppon Seynt Markes Day ; PASTON,II,172.341.9290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
the Erle of Worcestre broght aboute the maryage .
PASTON,II,172.341.9291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<em> The ... </em> the Kyng at Herford , the lordes Bokyngham ,
Shrewsbury , and o+teres ther . PASTON,II,172.341.9292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And now it ys seyd Herbert shall com ynne , and apper at Leycester
before the Kyng and the lordes , hys lyfe graunted and godes , so he
make amendys to theym he hath offended . PASTON,II,172.341.9293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Manye be endyted , som causelese , whych makyth Herbert partye strenger
; PASTON,II,172.341.9294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and the burgeys and gentlemen aboute Herford wille goo wyth the Kyng
wyffe and childe , but a pease be made or the Kyng part thens ,
PASTON,II,172.341.9295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ell Herbert and hys affinite` wille acquyt after , as it ys seyd .
PASTON,II,172.341.9296

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Erle of Warwyk hath had the folk of Caunterbury and Sandwych before
hym PASTON,II,172.341.9297

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and thanked hem of her gode hertes and vytaillyng of Calix ,
PASTON,II,172.341.9298

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and prayeth hem of contynuance . PASTON,II,172.341.9299

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I sende a bille of the namys endyted to my maister and yow , to see and
laugh at theyr Wellsh names descended of old pedegre`is .
PASTON,II,172.341.9300

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Our Lord be wyth yow . PASTON,II,172.341.9301

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wryt hastly at London the fyrst day of Maij . PASTON,II,172.341.9302

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:42?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_341:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Botonere PASTON,II,172.341.9303

<Q_PAS_A_1457_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_342> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,173>

{ED:573._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_PROBABLY_1457,_20_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my rygth reuerent and worchipfull Maister John Paston be this
dylyuered at London , and elles sent to hym to Norwich . </font>
PASTON,II,173.342.9304

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Rygth worchipfull ser and my rygth good maister , I recomend me to you
. PASTON,II,173.342.9305

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Lyke you to wete I have spoken wyth my lord Chaunceler and put the
bylle by-for hym and all the lordes vpon Wednesday at after non last
past , wenyng to me to haue an answer vpon Thursday .
PASTON,II,173.342.9306

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my lord Chaunceler told me that they sped no partycler mater yet
syn they cam , nor han no leyser to attend swych maters .
PASTON,II,173.342.9307

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue spoken to my Lord Wylchyre , PASTON,II,173.342.9308

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he promysed to help forth that he can , and my Lord Beauchamp bothe
. PASTON,II,173.342.9309

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Fenyngley cam but on Thursday at evyn . PASTON,II,173.342.9310

<P_II,174>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , I have do made a newe bylle whyche I purpose to delyuer to
the Kyng . PASTON,II,174.342.9311

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , the lordes merveyle sore of the entre` that was made by the
straunge man or my lord entred ; PASTON,II,174.342.9312

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
they thynk that was a straunge werk and a sotyll .
PASTON,II,174.342.9313

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I spake to my lord Chaunceler how my maister and ye and your
frendes were put owte of the comyssyon of pees . PASTON,II,174.342.9314

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthe les he hath not graunted yet non newe . PASTON,II,174.342.9315

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the questyon that ye wylled me to aske my lord , I fond hym
yet at no good leyser . PASTON,II,174.342.9316

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , after the lordys seyng the councell schuld breke vp on
Munday nexst comyng . PASTON,II,174.342.9317

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the Archebysshop of York is heyll and mery , &c .
PASTON,II,174.342.9318

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:36
LETTER:PASTON_342:M4:1457:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn the xx day of Julij . By your man and seruaunt Thomas Playter
PASTON,II,174.342.9319

<Q_PAS_A_1458_FS_HWINDSOR> <L_PASTON_343> <A_HENRY_WINDSOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,174>

{ED:574._FROM_HENRY_WINDSOR_PROBABLY_1458,_27_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my full speciall gode maister John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,174.343.9320

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Worshipfull sir and my full speciall goode maister , after humble
recommendacion please it you to vnderstand that such seruice as I can
doo to your pleiser as to myn vnderstandyng I haue shewed my diligence
nowe this shorte season sithon your departyng , and in especiall aboute
suche a copie of a foundacion as your maistership commaunded me to gete
you a copie of ; of the which I sende vnto you at this tyme by my
broder William Worcestre iij copies writon by Luket , bycause I had no
leiser but somoch besenes in settyng forth of my Maister of the Rolles
<P_II,175> at this tyme . PASTON,II,175.343.9321

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And in all this Kynges deies ye can haue noon oder accordyng any thing
to your entent . PASTON,II,175.343.9322

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the names of the Poles , William hath more writyng than ye
and I coude fynde , foundon by labour made by hym ande me .
PASTON,II,175.343.9323

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And also , sir , he hath caused me to examyn olde and mony recordes
writon by som Frenshman concernyng the manoir of Dedham , that was a
comberouse labour PASTON,II,175.343.9324

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for these copies were full defectif , as it apereth by the correctyng
of them . PASTON,II,175.343.9325

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , sir , I mey sey to you that William hath goon to scole to a
Lumbard called Karoll Giles , to lern and to be red in poetre` or els
in Frensh , PASTON,II,175.343.9326

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he hath byn with the same Karoll euery dey ij tymes or iij ,
PASTON,II,175.343.9327

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and hath bought diuerse bokes of hym , for the which , as I suppose ,
he hath put hym-self in daunger to the same Karoll .
PASTON,II,175.343.9328

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I made a mocion to William to haue knoen part of his bisines ,
PASTON,II,175.343.9329

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he answered and said that he wold be as glad and as feyn of a good
boke of Frensh or of poetre` as my Maister Fastolf wold be to purchace
a faire manoir ; PASTON,II,175.343.9330

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and therby I vnderstand he list not to be commynd withall in such
matiers . PASTON,II,175.343.9331

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as touchyng your awun mater of the honour of Eye or of the
manoir of Bakton , and euer it come in my sight of so old tyme ye shall
son haue knolage . PASTON,II,175.343.9332

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , sir , as for any tidynges William can tell you .
PASTON,II,175.343.9333

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Here at London ar but full fewe , but Henry Bourghchier is ded sodenly
at Ludlowe . PASTON,II,175.343.9334

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My lord of Caunterbury and my Lord Bourgchier shall be this wyk at
Hunnesdon and hunte and sporte theym with Sir William Oldhall .
PASTON,II,175.343.9335

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
At this tyme nothyng els to your maistership , but and it please you to
remembre my maister , at your best leiser , wheder his old promise
shall stande as touchyng my preferryng to the Boreshed in Suthwerk .
PASTON,II,175.343.9336

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sir , I wold haue byn at a noder place , PASTON,II,175.343.9337

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and of my maisters awun mocion he said that I shuld sett vppon the
Boreshed ; in the which matier I reporte me to William Worcestre ,
Bokkyng , and William Barker , and most specially to my maisters awun
remembraunce . PASTON,II,175.343.9338

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I knoo full well ther cann noo conclusion be taken to myn avayle
without help of your maistership , vnto the which I vtterly submytte me
in this and all oder . PASTON,II,175.343.9339

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lord Jesu preserue you and all youres , PASTON,II,175.343.9340

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and send you your hertes disire with right . PASTON,II,175.343.9341

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_343:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Writon at London on Sonday next after Seynt Bartholomu Dey in hast . By
your seruaunt Henry Wyndesore PASTON,II,175.343.9342

<Q_PAS_A_1458_T_RSOUTHWELL> <L_PASTON_344> <A_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,176>

{ED:575._FROM_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL_ABOUT_1458,_6_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right reuerent and worshippfull John Paston in haste .
</font> PASTON,II,176.344.9343

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right reuerent and worshippfull ser and my right trusti and welbelouid
cosin , I recomaund me vnto you , praiyng you hertily to remembre me
vnto my Master Radclyff so that by your gode meanes I shall mowe haue
his gode mastershipp , the whiche I haue effectuelly to $my powere
sewed fore this iij yere and neuer deserved the contrarye to my
knowlegge , by my trouth ; PASTON,II,176.344.9344

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and if it can or may be founden that I haue I will obeye me , and offre
me to abyde the rewle of you and my cosin your brothir , &c .
PASTON,II,176.344.9345

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also , my lord of Caunterbury Master Waltier Blakette will help forthe
if nede be , PASTON,II,176.344.9346

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as to the remenaunt of the lordes , if the case require that ye may
vnderstand by your wysdam thei be displeased with me , as I trust to
God thei be not , I beseche you to remembre that I haue aforetyme $ben
accused vnto the Kinges highnesse and the Quenes for owyng my pouere
gode will and seruice vnto my lord of York and o+ter , &c . Wherof I
suppose that Thomas Bagham is remembred that I brought hym oones from
my lady a purs and v marc. therin , and to Ser Phelipp Wenteworth an
o+ter and a c s. therin for theire gode will and advise therin to my
lady and all vs that were appelled for that cause ; notwithstanding the
King wrote to my lord by the meanes of the Duc of Somersette that we
shuld be avoyded from hym , &c. , and within this ij yere we were in
like wise laboured a-geyns to the Quene , so that she wrote to my lord
to avoyde vs , saiyng that the King and she coude nor myght in no wise
be assured of hym and my lady as long as we were aboute hym , with
muche o+ter thing , as may be sufficiently preved by the Quenes writing
vnder herre own signett and signe manuell , the whiche I shewd to my
lord of Caunterbury and o+ter lordes , &c . PASTON,II,176.344.9347

<P_II,177>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I prey you haue me excused that I encombre you with thees matiers at
this tyme , PASTON,II,177.344.9348

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for me thinketh ye shuld will and desire me to do any thing to your
honour and pleaser at any tyme , wherto I shal be redy and welwilled
euer to my powere , by the grace of God , who haue you euer in his
keping , and all youres . PASTON,II,177.344.9349

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writon at Norwiche on Seint Feithes Day in haste .
PASTON,II,177.344.9350

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_344:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youres , Richard Suthwell PASTON,II,177.344.9351

<Q_PAS_A_1458_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_345> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,177>

{ED:576._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PROBABLY_1458}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,177.345.9352

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , as I went to my horsward by Lyncoln Coke ys place hyt fortuned
that Wymondham and H. Fenne talked to-gedre and called me by my name ,
PASTON,II,177.345.9353

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and both asked how my maister fard , &c . PASTON,II,177.345.9354

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Then Fen desyred me abyde to see astate taked yn Lyncoln place by hym
boght of Markham . PASTON,II,177.345.9355

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
In the meene tyme the seyd Wymondham sent hys man to speke wyth hym
PASTON,II,177.345.9356

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yede yn talkyng of Ser Thomas , how he wille help labour to an ende
, PASTON,II,177.345.9357

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and had spoke wyth Heydon yersten efe for the seyd cause .
PASTON,II,177.345.9358

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I seyd the cruell amerciementes by theyr labour , and he not beneficed
, shewed to grete a malice to vndo a preest jnnocent yn such a cause ,
&c . PASTON,II,177.345.9359

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
After my takyng leefe he called me ageyn PASTON,II,177.345.9360

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and seyd that he desyred Ser Thomas to be gode meene to my maister to
hafe affeccion to the chylde , &c . PASTON,II,177.345.9361

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I aunsuerd , yff my maister had before the maryage be laboured hyt had
$be moch esyer to bryng aboute then now . PASTON,II,177.345.9362

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And because hys fadre was so maryed ayenst my maister wille , he neuere
wold hafe affeccion to hym all hys lyfedayes . PASTON,II,177.345.9363

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He seyd that Thomas was wyth hys modre ther she duellyth ,
PASTON,II,177.345.9364

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yff it please my maister to sende for hym by Ser Thomas meene , &c.
I ensure yow by my soule I brake no mater to hym but of Ser Thomas
vndoyng and hys aduersaries neuere the better , whych to my power wold
help make it knowen to lordes and all othyrs of the cruell
amerciementes , <P_II,178> the cruell juge to be knowen as he ys ,
PASTON,II,178.345.9365

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I am of hys contrey PASTON,II,178.345.9366

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and know hys rysyng and maryages aswell as hymsylf .
PASTON,II,178.345.9367

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At ix at clok to hors-bak . PASTON,II,178.345.9368

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow breke my $bille . PASTON,II,178.345.9369

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:37
LETTER:PASTON_345:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your {ED:WORCESTER'S_'SATURN'_SYMBOL} PASTON,II,178.345.9370

<Q_PAS_A_1459_T_WBARKER> <L_PASTON_346> <A_WILLIAM_BARKER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,179>

{ED:578._FROM_WILLIAM_BARKER_1459,_24_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To myn ryght worshipfull $Mayster John Paston at London atte the
Temple . </font> PASTON,II,179.346.9371

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please youre maystership that as to-morwen a newe inquirendum shal be
taken at Wycham Markette for the parsonage of Rendelesham for on
Mayster John Clerke , a chapeleyn of the Lady Roos ;
PASTON,II,179.346.9372

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Ser Thomas shuld a ben there , PASTON,II,179.346.9373

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but he is hurte of an hors , PASTON,II,179.346.9374

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also hit was so late warnyng that we myght not ben there ;
PASTON,II,179.346.9375

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as Mayster Steven seyth hit shuld not an avayled thow on hadde ben
there , PASTON,II,179.346.9376

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and ell I wold a laboured theder myn-self . PASTON,II,179.346.9377

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But he $seyth and ye wold speke to myn lord Norwych and enforme hym of
the trought of the mater he shal never presente ner inducte non tyl the
ryght of the patentes be discussed , PASTON,II,179.346.9378

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also we may after-wardes have a melius inquirendum .
PASTON,II,179.346.9379

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Mayster Steven hath wreten to Ser John Bulman all the tytles and
presentacions , PASTON,II,179.346.9380

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +terfore if hit please yow to comon with hym ye shall vnderstande
all the mater by hym , how myn lord is disposed .
PASTON,II,179.346.9381

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Mayster Robert Eppeswell is now at London PASTON,II,179.346.9382

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
hit were shame that they shuld have ther entent .
PASTON,II,179.346.9383

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser Phillip Wentworth groundeth not his presentacion by the patent ,
but by the endenture a-twyxt the wedewe and hym , &c .
PASTON,II,179.346.9384

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Myn mayster is as freshe as ever he was this ij yere , thanked be God .
PASTON,II,179.346.9385

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And youre mater that ye have meved of to Ser Thomas for the purchase ,
&c. , myn mayster is weel agreed +terto , PASTON,II,179.346.9386

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but fyrst hit was taken strangely , &c . PASTON,II,179.346.9387

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Jesu preserue yow , myn worshipfull mayster , to youre
<P_II,180> desyre after his pleser and youre trewe entent .
PASTON,II,180.346.9388

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Hastly at Norwyche on Seynt John Day at vij of the clokke at even .
PASTON,II,180.346.9389

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_346:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre owen man W. Barker per mandatum T. H. PASTON,II,180.346.9390

<Q_PAS_C_1459_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_347> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,180>

{ED:579._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1459,_3_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght welbelovyd cousyn John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,180.347.9391

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Hyt ys to remembre my cosyn John Paston that where as he desyred to
hafe the namys of the newe feffement of the maner of Dedham that
William Geney myght see to grounde such mater vppon as myght be for the
seurtee of the seyd maner , I sent a copy of the seyd feffement by John
Daunson the last weke . PASTON,II,180.347.9392

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for that ye desyre to know of one Teynton yn whoos name the
fyrst entree yn Dedham was made , the auncetrie or som cosyn of that
Teynton was infeffed of trust yn the seyd maner bethyn thys xl yere ,
PASTON,II,180.347.9393

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and hath delyuered such astate , wyth dyuers othyrs so enfeffed yn that
maner , hath enseled to me and othyr of my feffees as the dede of my
purchasse wille make mencion ; PASTON,II,180.347.9394

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yn London a man shall best inquyre of the seyd Teynton .
PASTON,II,180.347.9395

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for the principall evidenses of Dedham , I hafe sent hem vpp
to yow by the seyd Daunson the last weke , wyth the copies of iij
relesses of the auncetrie of Poles , and also wyth a copy of the warde
late made by the Archebysshop of Caunterbury , the Bysshop of Norwich ,
Ser John Forscue and William Yeluerton , Justices .
PASTON,II,180.347.9396

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , there as one Well Deen makyth moch a-doo for the clayme of my
beerehouses purchased of W. Southcotes , I hafe spoke of it to John
Bokkyng to labour and do by your avice that at may be vayllable for me
. PASTON,II,180.347.9397

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Elzabet the doughter of the Southcotes knouleged the relessyng of
all hyr ryght yn the seyd berehouses , wyth the appurtenaunces ,
to-fore William +Geluerton , Justice , at Seynt Bryde ys chyrch the
Trinite` terme A=o= xxix=o= r. r. H. vj . PASTON,II,180.347.9398

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for Rauff Alygh , squyer , wyth my lord Chaunceller , that ye
hafe remembred to hafe hys patent for hys fee , I have do wrote it and
<P_II,181> enseled it PASTON,II,181.347.9399

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and sendyth it now vpp to London to yow , whom I hafe graunted to hafe
xx s. a yere to be of my councell and supporter of my tenauntes yn
Southwerk , to by wyth-all a goune . PASTON,II,181.347.9400

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , wher as Cristofre hath wryt to me that one Laurence Donne hath
do somond my tenement by Seynt Olof chyrch , of x li. of yerly value ,
to aunsuere at thys xv=a= Johannis , I pray you to ouersee well myne
evidenses of the seyd tenement and that ye hafe gode councell to avyse
the best remedies . PASTON,II,181.347.9401

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I hafe wreten to Thomas Plummer to speke wyth one Aston hys landlord
for the recuuere of certeyn evidenses that he hath yn kepyng of the
seyd place , PASTON,II,181.347.9402

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there ys one John Hannam duellyng at Tendryng yn Essexe that sold
it me , whych hath mo evidenses by lyklynesse and an obligacion of a c
li. that the seyd Laurens Donne is obliged to , that he shall nevyr
clayme , vex , ne trouble the seyd londe . PASTON,II,181.347.9403

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And a wedowe duellyth yn Surre` that was Ryuers ys wyfe , late decesed
, duellyng som tyme wyth my lord Chauncellere , whych hath the seyd
Laurens Donne condempned yn pryson , PASTON,II,181.347.9404

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and she hath ij dedes of my seyd tenement . PASTON,II,181.347.9405

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cristofre may speke wyth hyr for delyueraunce of hem .
PASTON,II,181.347.9406

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , one Richard Phelip , grocer vppon London Bryg , ys one the
grettist mayntenour that the seyd Laurens Donne hath ;
PASTON,II,181.347.9407

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he made an entre` yn-to my place , as Cristofre sent me word , iiij
yere passed wyth the seyd Laurence , PASTON,II,181.347.9408

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
so I wolde ye vndrestode the grounde of that entree . And yff ye thynk
it proffitable for me , to do the seyd Laurens and Rychard Phelip be
pursewed for the commyng vppon my grounde ; PASTON,II,181.347.9409

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but it were nede that Rauff Alye were made prevy to thys matere .
PASTON,II,181.347.9410

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , as to such maters meoved by Stevyn Scrope and Rychard Byngham ,
Justice , I hafe wreten a lettre late by the seyd Daunson vnto my seyd
cousyn and to William +Geluerton of myne entente ,
PASTON,II,181.347.9411

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and geve hem full power to appoynt wyth hem ; PASTON,II,181.347.9412

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I seyd also of my disposicion and entent to hem ,
PASTON,II,181.347.9413

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I desyre hem to take the labour for to bryng thys mater to a gode
ende so that y hafe no cause to trouble wyth hym . And that it please
yow thynk vppon all othyr maters that I can not wryte esylye now .
PASTON,II,181.347.9414

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the Blessed Trinite` hafe you yn hys gouuernaunce .
PASTON,II,181.347.9415

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wret at Castre the iij=d= day of Jullet A=o= xxxvij regis H. vj .
PASTON,II,181.347.9416

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your cosyn John Fastolf PASTON,II,181.347.9417

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:81?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_347:M4:1459:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I pray you , cousyn , that betwene you and Hue at Fenne that ye
wold see a spedye moyen and a sure for the recuuere of the iij=c= mark
owyng and adiuged me to be resseyved of the Lady Fulthorp for the warde
of T. Fastolf . PASTON,II,181.347.9418

<Q_PAS_A_1459_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_348> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,184>

{ED:582._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_1459,_PROBABLY_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Carissimo suo magistro Johanni Paston armigero . PASTON,II,184.348.9419

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Jesus , Maria , &c. PASTON,II,184.348.9420

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryte reuerent mayster and most trusty frend in erthe , as lowly as I
kan or may I recommande me , &c . PASTON,II,184.348.9421

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Syre , in feyth I was sore aferd that +ge had a gret lettyng that +ge
come not on Wednysday to mete , &c . PASTON,II,184.348.9422

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be myn feythe and +ge had be here +ge schuld haf had ryte good chere ,
&c. , and hafe faryd ryte wele after +gowr plesere , &c. , wyth more ,
&c . PASTON,II,184.348.9423

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sire Jon Tatirshale is at one wyth Heydon , &c. ,
PASTON,II,184.348.9424

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Lord Skalys hath made a lofeday wyth the Priowr and Heydon in alle
materys except the matere of Snoryng , &c . PASTON,II,184.348.9425

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the seyd Pryowr spake maysterly to the jurrowrys , &c. ,
PASTON,II,184.348.9426

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and told hem and they had dred God and hurt of here sowlys they wold
haf sum instruccyon of the one party as wele as of the o+ter ;
PASTON,II,184.348.9427

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but they were so bold they were not a-ferd , PASTON,II,184.348.9428

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for they fownde no bonys to sey in here verdyte , as T. T. and J. H.
wold , &c . PASTON,II,184.348.9429

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
A lewd doctowr of Ludgate prechid on Soneday fowrtenyte at Powlys ,
chargyng the peple that no man schuld preyen for these lordys
traytowrys , &c. ; PASTON,II,184.348.9430

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he had lytyl thank , as he was worthy , &c. ,
PASTON,II,184.348.9431

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and for hyse lewd demenyng alle hise brethir arn had in the lesse
fauowr at London , &c . PASTON,II,184.348.9432

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Doctowr Pynchebek and Doctowr Westhawe , grete prechowrys and parsonys
at London , bene now late made monkys of Charterows at Schene , one at
the on place and an o+ter at the o+ter place , &c .
PASTON,II,184.348.9433

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Chauncelere is not good to these lordys , &c. ,
PASTON,II,184.348.9434

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he feryth the <P_II,185> Erle of Marche wyl cleyme be inheritauns
the erldam of Ha <em> ... </em> , &c. , of which mater I herd gret
speche in Somercede schyre , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9435

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
$Wyndham {TEXT:Wydham} , Heydon , Todynham , Blake , W. Chambirleyn ,
$Wentworth , han late commyssyonys to take for tretowrys and send to
the next gayl alle personys , fawtourys , and $weelwyllerys to the seyd
lordys , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9436

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Mayster Radclyff and +ge haf none of commyssyonys directid to +gow ,
&c. , PASTON,II,185.348.9437

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for +ge bene holdyn fauowrabil , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9438

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wyndham and Heydon bene namyd here cavserys of these commyssyonys , &c
. PASTON,II,185.348.9439

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
On Moneday last at Crowmere was the ore and the bokys of regystre of
the Amrelte` takyn awey fro myn Lord Scalys men be a gret multitude of
my Lord Roosys men , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9440

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Lord Skalys is to my lord Prince , &c. , to wayte on hym , &c .
PASTON,II,185.348.9441

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He seyth per deum sanctum , as we sey here , he schal be amrel or he
schal ly there-by , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9442

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be my feyth , here is a coysy werd . PASTON,II,185.348.9443

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Walsham of Chauncery , that neuer made lesyng , told me that Bokkyng
was wyth my lord Chauncelere this terme , PASTON,II,185.348.9444

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but I askyd not how many tymys , &c . PASTON,II,185.348.9445

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As I haf wrytyn to +gow oftyn by-fore this , ' Facite vobis amicos de
mammona iniquitatis ' , quia de facto T. T. , J. H. , et J. W. , cum
ceteris Magistri Fastolff fallacibus famulis magnam gerunt ad vos
invidiam quod excelleretis eos in bonis , &c. Judas non dormit , &c. '
Noli zelare facientes iniquitatem quoniam tanquam fenum velociter
arescent et quem admodum olera herbarum cito per Dei graciam decident .
' PASTON,II,185.348.9446

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ideo sequitur in psalmo , ' Spera in Domino et fac bonitatem et
pasceris in diuiciis eius , et delectare in Domino et dabit tibi
peticiones cordis tui . ' PASTON,II,185.348.9447

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Et alibi , ' Jacta cogitatum tuum in Domino et ipse te enutriet . '
PASTON,II,185.348.9448

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
' Vtinam ' , inquit apostolus , ' abscindantur qui vos conturbant ' ,
&c. Et alibi , ' Cabete vos a malis et inportunis hominibus . '
PASTON,II,185.348.9449

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Procor igitur Deum , qui vos et me creauit et suo precioso sanguine nos
redemit , vos , vestros , et vestra graciose conseruet in prosperis et
graciosius dirigat in agendis . PASTON,II,185.348.9450

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_348:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Scriptum Walsham feria quarta in nocte , cum magna festinacione , &c.
Vester ad vota promptissimus , Frater J. B. , Minorum minimus Vtinam
iste mundus malignus transiret et concupiscencia eius .
PASTON,II,185.348.9451

<Q_PAS_A_1459_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_349> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,186>

{ED:583._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_1459,_OCTOBER-NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Jesu mercy PASTON,II,186.349.9452

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryte reuerent mayster , &c. , as sone as +ge may goodly comyth to
Castre , and +Gelverton wyth +gow and +ge think it be to don ;
PASTON,II,186.349.9453

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and sendyth home +gowr men and hors tyl +ge haf do here , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9454

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And by grace of God , and +gowr polityk wisdham , +ge schal conclude
more effectualy in gret materys of substauns , to my maysterys and
+gowr worschip and profyte . PASTON,II,186.349.9455

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It is hey tyme . PASTON,II,186.349.9456

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He drawyt fast homeward , PASTON,II,186.349.9457

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and is ryte lowe browt and sore weykid and feblyd , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9458

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +ge muste bryng wyth +gow a forme of a supplicacyon made at London
in what maner wyse Mayster R. Popy , a cunnyng and a crafty man , schal
presentyn and purposyn to the Kyng for the inmorteysing of Castre to
Seynt Benet , &c. , which he promittyd vp a certeyn mony , &c. , and
vndirtoke it , &c. , and fond that tyme no bonys in the matere , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9459

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And now he seyth he wil labowr and ryde and do hise part , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9460

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And he wold haf me to help hym , &c. , quod non fiet , &c. , or ell a
man of credens of my maysterys , &c. , quod dubito fieri , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9461

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God bryng +gow sone hidyr , &c. , PASTON,II,186.349.9462

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I am weri tyl +ge come . PASTON,II,186.349.9463

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sire Thomas the parson , +gowr owne most trewe , &c. , be myn trewthe ,
and I +gowr bedeman and +gowrys at +gowr comaundment in +gowr letter ,
haf no more towchid of the mater , &c. , to my mayster , &c .
PASTON,II,186.349.9464

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Every day this v dayes he seyth , ' God send me sone my good cosyn
Paston , PASTON,II,186.349.9465

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I holde hym a feythful man and ever on man . '
PASTON,II,186.349.9466

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cui ego , ' That is soth ' , &c . PASTON,II,186.349.9467

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Et ille , ' Schew me not the mete , PASTON,II,186.349.9468

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
schew me the man . ' PASTON,II,186.349.9469

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Hec verba replicat sepius cum magno stomacho , &c.
PASTON,II,186.349.9470

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Colinus Gallicus dicit in Jernemuta et aliis locis se esse executorem ,
&c. PASTON,II,186.349.9471

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dixit eciam heri coram pluribus , si semel fuerit Londoniis nunquam wlt
videre Norfolciam , &c. PASTON,II,186.349.9472

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Dicit eciam , vbi executores credunt se habituros claues , &c. , post
mortem alii habebunt claues , ita bene sicut illi , &c.
PASTON,II,186.349.9473

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Propter Deum , faciatis Spirlyng venire iuxta promissum michi factum ,
&c. PASTON,II,186.349.9474

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Gallicus ipse maxime odit rectorem et vellet supplantare eum , &c.
PASTON,II,186.349.9475

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , valde desiderat suum , quietus est quod absit , &c.
PASTON,II,186.349.9476

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Henricus Todynham continue aspirat post mortem magistri cum mille
habeat oculos nocendi , &c. PASTON,II,186.349.9477

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_349:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Si quorum duos deperderet , nullus ceteros timeret , &c.
PASTON,II,186.349.9478

<Q_PAS_A_1459_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_350> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,187>

{ED:584._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_TO_PASTON_OTHERS_1459,_7_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right worshipful maistris William Yeluerton , Justice ,
John Paston , and Herre` Filongley , and to eche of them . </font>
PASTON,II,187.350.9479

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right worshipful seres , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,187.350.9480

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And like it yow to wete that my lord Chaunceller is right good and
tendre lord in all youre materes , and soo wil contynue , and my lord
Tresorier in like wise ; whiche bothen haue answerid Wyndham nought
aldermoste to hise plesir be-cause of his noiseful langage , seyng how
he myght haue no lawe and that my lord Chaunceller was nought made
excecutour but for meigntenaunce , with many othir woordis noo +ting
profitable ner furtheryng his entent . PASTON,II,187.350.9481

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for ony particuler materes , the parlament as yet abideth vpon the
grete materes of atteyndre and forfeture , PASTON,II,187.350.9482

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and soo +tere be many and diuerse particuler billes put jnne but noon
redde ner touchyng vs , as nygh as we can herken ; to whiche Playter
and I attenden daily , trustyng on my lordes aboveseid , my lord Priue`
Seall , and other good lordes , and many also of your acqueyntance and
owres , that and ony thing be we shall sone haue knowlege .
PASTON,II,187.350.9483

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Chief Justice is right herty PASTON,II,187.350.9484

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seith ful weel and kyndely of my maister , whom Jesu for his mercy
pardonne , and haue yow in his blessid gouernaunce .
PASTON,II,187.350.9485

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Writen at Couentre` the morwne after Seint Nicholas .
PASTON,II,187.350.9486

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as to money , I delyuered vn-to the Vndertresorier a lettre from
Maister Filongley , PASTON,II,187.350.9487

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I fonde hym right wele disposid to doo that may please yow in all
our materes ; PASTON,II,187.350.9488

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and toke noo money of hym as yette , PASTON,II,187.350.9489

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for we haue noo nede to spende ony summes as yette ,
PASTON,II,187.350.9490

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
ner with Godes grace shall nought haue . PASTON,II,187.350.9491

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I come to this town of Couentre` suche day seuenyght as the parlement
byganne ; PASTON,II,187.350.9492

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for suche thinges as I coude herken aftyr I sende to William
Worscetre a grete bille of tidinges to shewe yow .
PASTON,II,187.350.9493

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as <P_II,188> yesterday in the mornyng come jnne th'Erle of
Penbroke with a good felechip , PASTON,II,188.350.9494

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the Duchesse of York come yestereven late , as the bringer here-of
shall more pleinly declare yow , to whom ye like to gif credence .
PASTON,II,188.350.9495

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Bushop of Excestre and the Lord Grey Ruthyn haue declarid them ful
worshipfuly to the Kynges grete plesir . PASTON,II,188.350.9496

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Youre John Bokkyng PASTON,II,188.350.9497

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Playter and I writen you a lettre by Norffolk , yoman for +te Kynges
mouth . PASTON,II,188.350.9498

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{COM:LIST_OF_NAMES_OMITTED} Hastynges and o+ter that as yet we can
nought knowe +tere names , &c . PASTON,II,188.350.9499

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for +te Lord Powys , he come jnne PASTON,II,188.350.9500

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hadde grace as for his lyf , PASTON,II,188.350.9501

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38
LETTER:PASTON_350:M4:1459:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but as for hise godes +te forfeture passid . PASTON,II,188.350.9502

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_351> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,190>

{ED:587._SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_TO_PASTON_YELVERTON_1455-9,_20_MARCH}_CO DE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To the worshypfull and my welbelovyd cosyns John Paston and
+Geluerton . </font> PASTON,II,190.351.9503

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Worshypfull sers and cousyns , y comaund me to yow ,
PASTON,II,190.351.9504

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and y thank yow for your gode laboures abowte my processe spedyng of
the accion that y have take ayenst Thomas Fauconere ;
PASTON,II,190.351.9505

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and seeyng that he ys ryght obstynate and hath wrought ayenst Byrkwod
ryght vniustlye to hys vndoyng , whych Fauconere payd me no maner somme
for the seyd Byrkwod as my resseyuours hafe enformed me , and the seyd
Byrkwod owyth greete money to dyuers credytours when he stode myne
officer that he hath take alloaunce for and not payd it , so it
standyth to me yn debt , whych hys obligacion ys parcell of that debt ;
wherfor y pray yow as ferre as y have ryght that ye wylle sew it owte
as ye thynkyth best by your grete wysdom . PASTON,II,190.351.9506

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And when that y have my recuuere ayenst the seyd Fauconer and Byrkwod y
wolle yn reson be rewled and moderated by your discrecions , and as y
fynde the seyd Fauconer well demened as to the seyd Byrkwod .
PASTON,II,190.351.9507

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And y pray God have yow yn hys kepyng . PASTON,II,190.351.9508

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wreten at Castre the xx day of Marche . PASTON,II,190.351.9509

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Your cosyn John Fastolf PASTON,II,190.351.9510

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_351:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And y pray yow foryeve me that y noye yow somoch wyth my materys .
PASTON,II,190.351.9511

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_352> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,191>

{ED:588._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455-9,_13_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght welbelovyd cosyn John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,191.352.9512

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Worshypfull cosyn , I comaunde me to yow . PASTON,II,191.352.9513

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And lyke yow wete that y sende to yow my seruaunt , berer hereoff , a
certeyn jnstruccion to be corrected by your avice , prayng yow to take
it tendyrly to hert ; and also a certeyn remembraunce concernyng
Walsyngham , whych y trust to God by your help shall be corryged .
PASTON,II,191.352.9514

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And certeyn frendys of youres and myne hafe late be here
PASTON,II,191.352.9515

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and desyre me to wryte vn-to yow for your frendshyp and gode wille
passyng alle othyr mennys , whych y pray yow concyder after the case
shall requyre and as ye thynk by your wyse discrecion , yn trust to
hafe gode lordshyp . PASTON,II,191.352.9516

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And the Blessed Trinite` kepe yow . PASTON,II,191.352.9517

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wryt at Castre xiij day of June . PASTON,II,191.352.9518

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_352:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Your cosyn J. Fastolf PASTON,II,191.352.9519

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JFASTOLF> <L_PASTON_353> <A_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1378?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,191>

{ED:589._FROM_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1455-9,_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To myn worshipfull cosyn John Paston , squier . </font>
PASTON,II,191.353.9520

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Ryght worshipfull cosyn , I recomaunde me to yow PASTON,II,191.353.9521

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and thanke yow of youre greet peyn and laboures that ye daylye take for
me in alle myn causes , for wheche I am greetly holden to yow ,
PASTON,II,191.353.9522

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
God yelde hit yow . PASTON,II,191.353.9523

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And , cosyn , hit is so , as I am enformed , that a fermoure of myn
maner in Saxthorp called John Bennes shuld come be-fore yow for to
appoynte for suche dewte` as he oweth to me vpon his ferme .
PASTON,II,191.353.9524

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I sende to yow the bokes of his accompt , to th'entent that Spyrlyng
may awayte vpon yow at his comyng and declare hym his dewte` , wheche
as myn receyvoure seyth hit wole drawe to the summe of xlv li. , and
more money at Mihelmasse now <P_II,192> next comyng .
PASTON,II,192.353.9525

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And the ferme is but xx li. yerly , by wheche ye may vnderstande that
he hath hadde greet fauoure in his payementes , to his weel and myn
greet hurt , as I reporte me to youre greet wysdom .
PASTON,II,192.353.9526

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Neverthelesse , sethe hit is so that he hath hadde this advayle vpon me
I wold seen now that suche dewte` as shal ben dewly founde vpon hym by
accompt to be made at this day , that I may ther-of have payement in
hande , as reson wole , or of as moche as the day is ronne of ; and for
the resydewe to have greable sewerte` , that is to sey of xx li. growen
at Mihelmasse next comyng , to have payement +terof at the festes of
Seynt Andrew and the Annunciacion of Oure Lady next comyng by even
porcions , as in his endenture made of the seyd lees more playnly is
conteyned . PASTON,II,192.353.9527

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And this don I am content that he goo at large , and ell that Spyrlyng
take a rekenyng of hym so as I may be aunswered accordyng to the
statute , &c . PASTON,II,192.353.9528

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And , cosyn , that ouere this ye lyke to yeve credence to the brynger
her-of of that he shal declare yow in this be-half be mouth .
PASTON,II,192.353.9529

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And Oure Lord kepe yow . PASTON,II,192.353.9530

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wreten in hast at myn manoir of Castre the Saterday next after Oure
Lady Day the Assumpcion . PASTON,II,192.353.9531

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And , cosyn , I praye yow that he have non fauoure other wyse than lawe
wole , seyng he is so contraryows for any fayer promyse of his behalf ,
&c . PASTON,II,192.353.9532

AUTHOR:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_353:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Youre cosyn John Fastolf , Chr . PASTON,II,192.353.9533

<Q_PAS_A_1450S_FS_JBOKKYNG> <L_PASTON_354> <A_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,192>

{ED:590._FROM_JOHN_BOKKYNG_1455-9,_2_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sire , lyke it your maistership to wete +tat I sende you at +tis tyme
the rolle of +te copies of all patentes , and the appoyntement with
Wentworth laste , and also a abstracte drawen as it come simply to my
remembrance . PASTON,II,192.354.9534

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} with you sumtyme +tis next weke .
PASTON,II,192.354.9535

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
All men ar owte at +tis tyme , as +te parson , $Worcester , and Barker
, PASTON,II,192.354.9536

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +terfore til +tei come I may nought owte . PASTON,II,192.354.9537

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
H. Wyndesore departid on Monday PASTON,II,192.354.9538

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and will doo +tat he can . PASTON,II,192.354.9539

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He telleth me Lumleys patent is in his awarde , PASTON,II,192.354.9540

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but it is of noo force . PASTON,II,192.354.9541

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also he <P_II,193> hathe Constable is ij. patente ,
PASTON,II,193.354.9542

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +tat is moste ayenst vs , &c . PASTON,II,193.354.9543

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He wil purueie +terfore as ye knowe . PASTON,II,193.354.9544

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Myn maister comaundith hym to yow . PASTON,II,193.354.9545

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Here hathe ben Wilton with +te dede of feffement yesterday ,
PASTON,II,193.354.9546

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and all men hadde ensealed sauf myn maister , +tat now hathe ensealid ,
PASTON,II,193.354.9547

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and H. Inglose is right soory . PASTON,II,193.354.9548

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I can no newe tidinges but +tat myn maister hathe put his matier of
Issabells in Scroudeby and +te rente of +te Priour of Norwiche dieu to
Heilesdon in your hande and Thomas Grene . PASTON,II,193.354.9549

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ye shal +te next weke haue +te euidences . PASTON,II,193.354.9550

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Jesu kepe you and youres . PASTON,II,193.354.9551

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I sende myn maisteres Crane a lettre fro hir brothir ,
PASTON,II,193.354.9552

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I haue +te credence , whiche I can nought say but if she appose me
for certein materes of hir bro+teres . PASTON,II,193.354.9553

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Writen at Castre +te ij. day of Aprill . PASTON,II,193.354.9554

AUTHOR:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_354:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your owen seruaunt J. B. PASTON,II,193.354.9555

<Q_PAS_C_1459?_T_RNEVILLE> <L_PASTON_355> <A_RICHARD_NEVILLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1428> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,193>

{ED:591._FROM_RICHARD_EARL_OF_WARWICK_PERHAPS_ABOUT_1459,_1_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To myn right trusty and welbeloued John Paston , squyer .
</font> PASTON,II,193.355.9556

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued , I grete yow well , desiryng and praying
yow hertily that at the reuerens of God and this my writyng ye wooll
shewe your good maistershep and tender frenshep vn-to the right trew
seruauntes of God , myn oratoures the Freres Menoures of the couent of
Norwich , in swich maters as my right welbeloued Doctour Brakley shall
enforme yow mor apleyn ; to whoom I praye yow yeue feith and full
credens in this bihalf , wherin ye shall aswell doo a meritory dede as
to me a singuler pleaser , and cause me to shewe yow my good lordshep
in tyme comyng , wherfor in thies ye ne faile , as my trust is in yow .
PASTON,II,193.355.9557

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Crist haue yow in his blissed kepyng . PASTON,II,193.355.9558

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youen vnder my signet at London the ferst day of March .
PASTON,II,193.355.9559

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Richard Erl of Warrewyk PASTON,II,193.355.9560

AUTHOR:RICHARD_NEVILLE:MALE:_:1428:31?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:38?
LETTER:PASTON_355:M4:1459?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
R. Warrewyk PASTON,II,193.355.9561

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_356> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,194>

{ED:592._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_18_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght trusti and $welbeloued frend John Paston , squyer .
</font> PASTON,II,194.356.9562

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I comande me to you ;
PASTON,II,194.356.9563

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and for certain maters that I haue for to do , for the whiche <em>
maters I </em> sende vn-to you a squier of myn called Elyngham ,
praying you to gefe hym faythful credence of that he shal declare you
on myn behalfe as for this tyme . PASTON,II,194.356.9564

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
God haue you in hise keping . PASTON,II,194.356.9565

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the xviij day of Jull . PASTON,II,194.356.9566

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_356:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
+Gowr frend Scales PASTON,II,194.356.9567

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_357> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,194>

{ED:593._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_3_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To {ED:my} right trusty and welbeloued frend John Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,194.357.9568

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you well .
PASTON,II,194.357.9569

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And as touchyng +te mater +tat Elyngham and +ge comuned to-giders of
+te last tyme he was with you , I pray you +tat +ge wyll assigne such a
day as you liketh best , so +tat it be with-jnne this viij dayes ,
PASTON,II,194.357.9570

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and sende me worde what day +ge wyll be here be the bringer herof .
PASTON,II,194.357.9571

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I pray God haue you in gouernance . PASTON,II,194.357.9572

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the iij day of August . PASTON,II,194.357.9573

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_357:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Youre frend Scales PASTON,II,194.357.9574

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_358> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,195>

{ED:594._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_31_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued frend John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,195.358.9575

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you wel .
PASTON,II,195.358.9576

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for as mych as there is certayn vareaunce betwene Elizabeth Clere
and a seruaunt of myn called William $Stiwardesson {TEXT:Stiwadesson} ,
prayng you feithfully that +ge wyll labore and intrete the said
Elizabeth to such appointement as the brynger of +tis letter shal
informe you of , and do your trewe dilligence in +tis mater as +ge wyll
I do for you in any thyng +ge may haue ado in +tis cuntre` , which I
$wul do with al my herte . PASTON,II,195.358.9577

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Oure Lord haue yow in hise keping . PASTON,II,195.358.9578

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Myddelton the last day of August . PASTON,II,195.358.9579

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_358:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Scales PASTON,II,195.358.9580

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_359> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,195>

{ED:595._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_9_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and wel be-loued frend Jhon Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,195.359.9581

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you wel , thankyng you
hertely for +te gentilnes and good wyll I haue founde in you at all
tymes . PASTON,II,195.359.9582

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for as myche as I and other stonde feffed in the landes of Thomas
Canon , which is in vareaunce betwene you and hym , if +ge wyll do so
mych as for your part chese ij lerned men and +te said Canon shal chese
other ij , +tey to juge +tis mater as they shal seme of right and reson
. PASTON,II,195.359.9583

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And if so be +tat the said Canon wyll not do so , I wyll not lete you
to suye hym after the forme of the Kynges lawe . PASTON,II,195.359.9584

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And if +ge thinke it to many lerned men , <P_II,196> take +ge on and he
a no+ter , PASTON,II,196.359.9585

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and if +tey may not accorde +ge and I to be vmpere ,
PASTON,II,196.359.9586

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for we stande bo+te in lik cas . PASTON,II,196.359.9587

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And we shal make a good ende , be +te grace of Oure Lord , which haue
you in hise gouernance . PASTON,II,196.359.9588

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the ix day of Octobre . PASTON,II,196.359.9589

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_359:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
+Gowr frend Scales PASTON,II,196.359.9590

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_360> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,196>

{ED:596._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_16_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued frende John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,196.360.9591

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frend , I grete you hertly wel
PASTON,II,196.360.9592

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and wul +ge wite that Wotton is euer creyng and callyng upon me to
write vn-to you for hise londe ; wherfore , at +te reuerence of Good ,
consideryng +te symplenesse of hem all I pray you that +ge put hem at a
certen and lete hem all +tat they aught to haue of right ,
PASTON,II,196.360.9593

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for +taire creyng cause men to thinke +ge do hem grete wrong , which I
wote wel +ge woll be sory to do . PASTON,II,196.360.9594

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Oure Lord haue you in hise gouernance . PASTON,II,196.360.9595

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the xvj day of Octobre . PASTON,II,196.360.9596

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_360:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Youre frende Scales PASTON,II,196.360.9597

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_361> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,196>

{ED:597._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1459,_9_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_361:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued frend John Paston , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,196.361.9598

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_361:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued frende , I grete you hertly well , praying
you +tat +ge wyll sende me a coppie of +te awarde that was made be you
and my cousyn Ser Miles betwex my cousyn Bryan Stapylton and Elizabeth
Clere , and +tat +ge wyll sende me the said awarde be the bringer herof
. PASTON,II,196.361.9599

<P_II,197>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_361:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I pray God haue you in gouernance . PASTON,II,197.361.9600

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_361:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the ix day of Nouembre . PASTON,II,197.361.9601

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_361:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Scales PASTON,II,197.361.9602

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_362> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,197>

{ED:598._FROM_LORD_SCALES_NOT_AFTER_1460,_13_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and enterly welbeloued frend John Paston ,
squier . </font> PASTON,II,197.362.9603

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and enterly welbeloued frend , I grete you well .
PASTON,II,197.362.9604

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And for as mych as +tere is $vareaunce betwene William Wotton and hise
moder and the fermour +tere , wherfore I pray you +tat +ge wyll $fynd a
weye accordyng to right for to put hem in rest and pees ;
PASTON,II,197.362.9605

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for in as mych as they be $your tenauntes +ge aught to haue the reule
of hem before any o+ter , praying you to do youre part to put hem oute
of trouble . PASTON,II,197.362.9606

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I pray God haue you in hise gouernance . PASTON,II,197.362.9607

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Midelton the xiij day of Aprill . PASTON,II,197.362.9608

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_362:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Youre frend +te Lord Scales PASTON,II,197.362.9609

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_WYELVERTON> <L_PASTON_363> <A_WILLIAM_YELVERTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1400?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,197>

{ED:599._FROM_WILLIAM_YELVERTON_NOT_AFTER_1459,_4_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my ryght wurchepfull cosyn John Paston , esquier . </font>
PASTON,II,197.363.9610

<P_II,198>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right worchepful cosyn , I recomaunde me to yow , thankyng yow as
hertyly as I kan for my-selff , &c. , and specially for +tat ye do so
moche for Oure Ladyes hous of Walsyngham , which I trust veryly ye do
the rather for +te grete love +tat ye deme I haue +terto ;
PASTON,II,198.363.9611

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for trewly if I be drawe to any worchep or wellfare , and discharge of
myn enmyes daunger , I ascryve it vnto Our Lady ; preyng yow +terfore
+tat ye woln ben as frendly to Oure Ladyes hous as I wote well ye haue
alwey ben , and in especyall now +tat I myght haue of yow the report
certeynly be your letter of +tat that Naunton your cosyn informyd yow
and told yow be mouthe of all maters towchyng Oure Ladyes hous of
Walsyngham . PASTON,II,198.363.9612

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
For me thynkyth be +tat I haue herde be Oure Ladys prest of Walsyngham
, if I vnderstode weell +tat mater , +tat it shuld do moch to the gode
spede of the mater ; PASTON,II,198.363.9613

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and dought yow not Our Lady shall quyte it yow , and here poer priour
here-aftyr as he may , &c . PASTON,II,198.363.9614

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Preyng yow also , cosyn , and avysyng , for the ease of vs both and of
our frendes and of mony other , +tat ye be at London be tymes +tis
terme , PASTON,II,198.363.9615

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and if we spede well now , all well all +tis yere aftir ;
PASTON,II,198.363.9616

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
for I knowe veryly +ter was neuyr made gretter labour +tanne shall be
made now . PASTON,II,198.363.9617

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And +terfore I prey to Our Lady help vs and her blissid Sone , which
haue you in his holy kepyng . PASTON,II,198.363.9618

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wreten at your poer place of Bayfeld on Sent Fraunces Day in hast .
PASTON,II,198.363.9619

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_363:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
+Gour cosyn William Yeluerton , Justice PASTON,II,198.363.9620

<Q_PAS_A_1450S_T_ECLERE> <L_PASTON_364> <A_ELIZABETH_CLERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,198>

{ED:600._FROM_ELISABETH_CLERE_NOT_AFTER_1460,_EASTER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my worschepful cosyn John Paston be this letter delyuered in
hast . </font> PASTON,II,198.364.9621

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wurchepful cosyn , I recomaunde me to you . PASTON,II,198.364.9622

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Like it you to wete that Stywardesson cam to me on Esterne Even to
chirch and preide me to be his good mastras , and wold put hym-self in
my rewle to do as I wil bidde <P_II,199> hym ; trustyng , he seid ,
+tat I wold take hym to grace the rather for his submyssion , for if
Judas , he seid , wold an asked grace of God he schuld an had it , and
for his sake that I had receyved that day +tat I wold take his
submyssion . PASTON,II,199.364.9623

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I lete hym wete +tat I was in charite` , PASTON,II,199.364.9624

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I wold to hym no bodily harm , PASTON,II,199.364.9625

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I seid if a theef come and robbed me of al the good I haue on the
to day and come and asked me for-yifnesse on the tothyr day , were it
reson +tat I schuld for-yeve it without satisfaccion ?
PASTON,II,199.364.9626

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he seid nay ; PASTON,II,199.364.9627

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I seid he had don his dever in +tat in hym was to noyse me and
slaunder me , +te whiche I am wers plesed with-all +tan with ony mony
+tat I haue spent , PASTON,II,199.364.9628

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as for +tat I +gaf litel force of . PASTON,II,199.364.9629

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he swore he seide no thyng +tat schuld noyse me ,
PASTON,II,199.364.9630

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I seide if it had be a nother day I schuld a rehersed many mo
thyngges , but +tat is openly knowen among my tenauntez in this cuntre`
, and that is whan I sent to his place to $distreyn for my dute`s ,
where he hath seid vntrewly +tat he was bete , vp-on which vntrewe
langgage his maister hath take an <em> accion ageyn </em> me and my men
. PASTON,II,199.364.9631

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he swoor +tat he neuer seide +tat he was beten ,
PASTON,II,199.364.9632

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he seid he was neuer so sore afraied PASTON,II,199.364.9633

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he knew not what my men wold do to hym . PASTON,II,199.364.9634

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I askyd hym if he wold a-bide be +tat +tat my men come in-to his
place with force and armes or noght , and +tat he was betyn or noght ,
PASTON,II,199.364.9635

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he answerd ageyn with many crafty wordes ; PASTON,II,199.364.9636

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but at +te last he was a-knowe +tat he had seide hem and it was
vntrewly seid , and +tat he wold no more sey so ;
PASTON,II,199.364.9637

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +tis I bad my tenauntes schuld recorden , PASTON,II,199.364.9638

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for al +tat +tat was seid was seid openly among +te more part of al +te
parisch . PASTON,II,199.364.9639

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And for he seid trowth in this and for his owen sekyng schuld a fare
the better , PASTON,II,199.364.9640

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if {ED:he} had come with his maister I wold not a spoke with hym ,
PASTON,II,199.364.9641

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for his mayntenaunce he schal fare +te wers ;
PASTON,II,199.364.9642

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if he had come to me in +te begynnyng or +te lawe was attamed I
wold a mad +terin an ende my-self . PASTON,II,199.364.9643

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And syn +tat tyme be his owen desire to put it in my counsell lerned ,
+te whech I agreid at +tat tyme , +te which now I wol be avised ,
PASTON,II,199.364.9644

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for +ge han caused me to spend mony for your ontrowth
PASTON,II,199.364.9645

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my frendys han labour for me ; wherefor I wol non answer yeve hym
but be +te advise of my freendes +te whech han labour for me in +tis
mateer . PASTON,II,199.364.9646

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I seid his maister schuld leve his mayntenaunce , wherof I schuld
haue right good suerte` or ellys we schuld not go thorgh esyly ;
PASTON,II,199.364.9647

<P_II,200>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he desired an answer +te same day , PASTON,II,200.364.9648

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I seid nay , PASTON,II,200.364.9649

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he schuld haue his answer on Saterday on Esterweke .
PASTON,II,200.364.9650

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he had told a nother man +tat Heidon had promised his maister +tat
it schuld be put in award be Palme Sonday , PASTON,II,200.364.9651

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he is double both to hym and to me , PASTON,II,200.364.9652

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is William Geney and mo of my counsell ; PASTON,II,200.364.9653

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he rehersed no name , wherfore he seid to +te man +tat he wil not
be bounde neyther to me ne to my counsell , but jf I wil bid hym bryng
jn his dede and make a relese he wil do it . PASTON,II,200.364.9654

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for his berne +ter my men yeden jn to distreyne , it is franke
fe , he seith , wherfor he may yif +te rent where hym list .
PASTON,II,200.364.9655

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wherfor , cosyn , I beseche you +tat ye send me a bille what answer is
best to yeve , my worschep saved , be +te bryngger her-of .
PASTON,II,200.364.9656

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nomore I write to yow at this tyme , PASTON,II,200.364.9657

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but +te Holy Gost haue you in kepyng . PASTON,II,200.364.9658

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_364:M4:1450S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn in hast +te Monday next Esternday . Be your cosyn Elizabeth
Clere PASTON,II,200.364.9659

<Q_PAS_A_1460_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_365> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,209>

{ED:609._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_1460,_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my mayster Jon Pastone , esqwyere , be this letter presentid
. </font> PASTON,II,209.365.9660

<P_II,210>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jesus , Maria , &c. PASTON,II,210.365.9661

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryte reuerent sire , after dv recommendacyon , we sey in this cuntre`
that Heydon is for Barkschire in the Comon Hows .
PASTON,II,210.365.9662

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Lady of Suffolk hath sent vp hyre sone and hise wyf to my lord
of York to aske grace for a schireve the next yere , Stapilton , Boleyn
, or Tyrel , quod absit . PASTON,II,210.365.9663

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God send +gow Ponyng , W. P. , W. Rokewode , or Arblaster .
PASTON,II,210.365.9664

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Ge haf myche to done ; PASTON,II,210.365.9665

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jesu spede +gow . PASTON,II,210.365.9666

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
+Ge haf many good preyerys , what of the covent , cyte` , and cuntre` .
PASTON,II,210.365.9667

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God safe owr good lordys Warwik , alle hise bre+ter , Salisbury , &c. ,
fro al fals couetyse and fauowr of extorcyon , as they wil fle vttyr
schame and confusyon . PASTON,II,210.365.9668

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God save hem PASTON,II,210.365.9669

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and preserve fro treson and poyson . PASTON,II,210.365.9670

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lete hem be ware here-of , for the pite` of God ,
PASTON,II,210.365.9671

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yf owt come to my Lord Warwik but good , fare weel +ge ,
PASTON,II,210.365.9672

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fare wel I , and al owr frendys , PASTON,II,210.365.9673

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for be the weye of my sowle this lond were vttirly on-done , as God
forbede . PASTON,II,210.365.9674

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here enmyes bostyn wyth good to come to here fauowr ,
PASTON,II,210.365.9675

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but God defende hem PASTON,II,210.365.9676

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +geve hem grace to knowe here frendys fro here enmyes , and to
cherisch and preferre here frendys and lesse the myte of all here
enmyes thorw-owt the schiris of the lond . PASTON,II,210.365.9677

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my good Lord Warwik , wyth my lord hise bro+ter Chauncelere , and
my lord here fadyr woldyn opposyn as dede Danyel , Forteskv ,
Alisaundir , Hody , Doctowr Aleyn , Heydon , and Thorp of the writyng
made be hem at Couyntre` Parlement , PASTON,II,210.365.9678

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they schuld answere wers than sub cino or sub prino ,
PASTON,II,210.365.9679

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and this generaly wold I sey at Powlys Cros &c. and I schuld come there
, &c . PASTON,II,210.365.9680

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is verifyed of hem idem , Jeremie 8=o= , ' Vere mendacium operatus
est stilus mendax scribarum ' , &c . PASTON,II,210.365.9681

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And think of two vers of +gowr sawtere , PASTON,II,210.365.9682

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Scribantur hec in generacione altera ' , huius scilicet parlamenti ,
' et populus qui creabitur laudabit Dominum ' , &c .
PASTON,II,210.365.9683

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Deleantur eciam tales peruersi scriptores de libro viuencium , et cum
iustis non scribantur . ' PASTON,II,210.365.9684

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et non plura , sed vos , vestros , et vestra conseruet Iesus graciose
in prosperis et graciosius dirigat in agendis . PASTON,II,210.365.9685

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ex Norwico feria 4=a= , nuncio festinante . PASTON,II,210.365.9686

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I prey +gow for Goddes sake to be good mayster to Jon Lystere , &c
. PASTON,II,210.365.9687

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I prey +gow think in this parlement of the text of Holy Scripture ,
PASTON,II,210.365.9688

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_365:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Quicumque fecerit contra legem Dei et contra legem Regis iudicium
fiet de eo , vel in condempnacionem substancie eius , vel in carcerem ,
vel in exilium , vel in mortem ' , Primo Esdre vij=o= et partim 2=o=
Esdre 8=o=. PASTON,II,210.365.9689

<Q_PAS_A_1460?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_366> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,217>

{ED:614._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PERHAPS_ABOUT_1460,_17_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith it your maystership to witte that I haue receyved your letter
weche ye send to Robert Boteler , Elys , and to me be Robert Lynne for
the hors letour , weche I haue delyuerd hym and all the harneys .
PASTON,II,217.366.9690

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for that ye write to me for to gete you a fermour to the maner
<P_II,218> londes at Mauteby , in good feyth sawyng your displesure I
can non geete therto in no wice ; wherfore I sende John Deye to you
that he may haue appoyntment how that he shall be rwled ,
PASTON,II,218.366.9691

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I can non other-wice feele be hym but that he wol not passe j combe
barly for an acre . PASTON,II,218.366.9692

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He hath a xiiij acre lond resonably weele dyght to sowe on wheete ,
PASTON,II,218.366.9693

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for other londes jn goodfeyth they be ryght sympyll .
PASTON,II,218.366.9694

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Therfore that it plese you to lete hym haue an $answere {TEXT:aswere}
how he shal be rwled . PASTON,II,218.366.9695

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And , ser , as for the close at Mauteby ther wol non man take it to the
price that Robert Lynne and Robert Boteler had apoynted wyth me ,
PASTON,II,218.366.9696

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I suppose and ye wolde aggre` to pay from you vj li. in money for
the brekyng therof I can thynk I shuld fynd you iij men wold take it to
ferme for vij yere , so that they myght not pay no money the furst and
the ij=de= yere , and at the iij=de= yere to paye you for euery acre
xij d. , and so yerely xij d. for an acre duryng v of her laste yeres ,
weche shulde drawe clerely that schulde come to you xxiiij li. and the
seid vj li. payed to them . PASTON,II,218.366.9697

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if ye wol that I labore to bryng this aboute , that it plese you to
send me word in writyng be the berer herof for that and for the John
Dey . PASTON,II,218.366.9698

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My right wurshipful and my most reuerent maister , Almyghty Jesu
preserue and kepe you . PASTON,II,218.366.9699

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Castre on Seint Luke Even . PASTON,II,218.366.9700

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your own seruaunt R. Call PASTON,II,218.366.9701

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And $as $for {TEXT:asfor} Robert Lynne he spake to no man to haue the
clos , PASTON,II,218.366.9702

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
nor meved it to me nowther . PASTON,II,218.366.9703

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also I shulde haue of hym for feerme xvj s. viij d. , and xlv comb and
ij bushelz of barly . PASTON,II,218.366.9704

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I can non gete of hym . PASTON,II,218.366.9705

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I suppose he wol speke wyth you or he goo to London , wherfore I
beseche your maystership that ye wol remembre to speke to hym for it .
PASTON,II,218.366.9706

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He thynkyth ye shulde $give $it {TEXT:gevet} hym ,
PASTON,II,218.366.9707

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if I vndrestod that ye wold I shuld shewe hym no favour therin .
PASTON,II,218.366.9708

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I shuld purvey so that the money shuld be had , so that I myght witte
this next weke . PASTON,II,218.366.9709

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also that it plese you to send me word if the cort be warned to be
on Twesday at Heynforth or nought , and on Thursday at Saxthorp ;
PASTON,II,218.366.9710

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also Walter Shipdam wold that the cort shuld be at Techewell on
Saterday next comyng , PASTON,II,218.366.9711

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he shuld be wel forth on the wey whan he ys at Saxthorp .
PASTON,II,218.366.9712

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for Spittlynges , it is told me that the fermour is gon and
no thyng is ocupied ther nough ; wherfore I am purposed to be there on
Monday next comyng . PASTON,II,218.366.9713

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , your maystership send me word be Ser Jamys that I shuld pay hem
her quarterage . PASTON,II,218.366.9714

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ser , if it plese you I haue not $money {TEXT:moey} to pay them ,
PASTON,II,218.366.9715

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for all the money that I haue receyved here I haue payd out for rentis
resolutis , weche drawith iij li. and more . PASTON,II,218.366.9716

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I myght no otherwice do , PASTON,II,218.366.9717

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_366:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they toke distresses therfore . PASTON,II,218.366.9718

<Q_PAS_A_1460_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_367> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,219>

{ED:615._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1460,_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght worchipfull and my good maister John Paston ,
esquyer , in hast . </font> PASTON,II,219.367.9719

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Rygth worchipfull and my most speciall synguler good maister , I
recomend me to you , besechyng your maisterchip not to be dysplesed
with my long taryans and also to take it to no gref thou it were long
or I wrot to you , PASTON,II,219.367.9720

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for in good feyth I wend my-self with jn sevenygth after Seynt
Feythesmesse to haue ben at London . PASTON,II,219.367.9721

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And for asmoche as Suthwell desyred me to tarye for evydens gevyng ,
&c. , I promysed hym so to do , and tarye tyll the Munday after Seynt
Feythesmesse or tyll the Tewysday sevenyth after at the ferthest .
PASTON,II,219.367.9722

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And at tho dayes I hard no word fro hym , PASTON,II,219.367.9723

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so vppon the Thursday after had I word that the vndereschetour
schuld sytte at Ocle the Tewysday after Seynt Luce ;
PASTON,II,219.367.9724

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so I tarye as yette PASTON,II,219.367.9725

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and trust verely to be with you the Saterday at the ferthest after
Seynt Luce . PASTON,II,219.367.9726

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , if my Maister of the Rolles be not com I trust to God to
com tydely j-now as for the trauersys ; PASTON,II,219.367.9727

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if ye besi you to the junyng ther-of or I com , Richard Loy schall
delyuer hem you if ye send to hym for it , PASTON,II,219.367.9728

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I left hem with hym to gete hem jn if he mygth
PASTON,II,219.367.9729

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and promysed hym a reward for his labour , &c . PASTON,II,219.367.9730

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , my maistres and all folkys be heyll and mery , blyssed be Jesu ,
ho haue you in his blyssed gouernans and proteccion .
PASTON,II,219.367.9731

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_367:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
By youre Thomas Plaiter PASTON,II,219.367.9732

<Q_PAS_A_1460_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_368> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,219>

{ED:616._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1460,_PROBABLY_21_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my maister John Paston , esquyer . </font>
PASTON,II,219.368.9733

<P_II,220>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$After my most speciall recomendacion , like your maisterchip wete that
the office is taken at Ocle jn lyke fourme as Suthwell can schew you ,
PASTON,II,220.368.9734

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for Fraunceys Costard hath sent it hym , PASTON,II,220.368.9735

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the jentylmen that passed vppon the office wold fynd nor medyll
nou+ter-2 with the tenurys nor ho is nexst her . Wherfor if ye wol haue
it $o+ter-wyse found , Fraunceys Costard hath vnder-take it , but it
schal not be by suche men of worchip $as is jn this .
PASTON,II,220.368.9736

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the vnderchryf was at Ocle PASTON,II,220.368.9737

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ded and sayd to +te jentylmen al that euer he cowde to the lette of
the mater . PASTON,II,220.368.9738

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Suffolk , I vnderstand they haue no warant ,
PASTON,II,220.368.9739

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
so I tarye as yet what cas that ever falle . PASTON,II,220.368.9740

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if ye wold that I tarye not , that it lyke you by the brynger
here-of to send hasty word . PASTON,II,220.368.9741

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Plaiter PASTON,II,220.368.9742

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_368:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I send you the names of +te jure` here-jn . PASTON,II,220.368.9743

{COM:LIST_OF_NAMES_OMITTED}

<Q_PAS_A_1460_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_369> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,221>

{ED:617._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_1460,_24_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the rite worschipful esqwyre Jon Paston be this presentid .
</font> PASTON,II,221.369.9744

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jesus , Maria , Johannes Baptista , Franciscus , cum sanctis omnibus ,
assistant vobis vestris in laboribus . Amen . PASTON,II,221.369.9745

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worschipful and most interely bitrustid mayster and specyal frend ,
after dvte` of al lowly recommendacyon +ge schal conceyue that I
certefye +gow for trewthe I comonyd late wyth a worschipful and a wele
namyd , a good thrifty man of this cuntre` , whiche told me in secrete
wyse that he herd Doctowr Aleyn seyn after the parlement of Covintre`
that yf the lordys that tyme reynyng and now discessid myte haf standyn
in gouernauns , that Forteskv the Justise , Doctowr Moreton , Jon
Heydon , Thorp , and he schuld be made for evir ;
PASTON,II,221.369.9746

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf it turnyd to contrary wyse it schuld growe to here fynal
confusyon and vttyr destruccyon , for why , the parlyows writing and
the myschevous inditing was ymaginid , contrivid , and vtterly
concludid by here most vengeable labowr , &c. , and here most malicyows
conspiracye ayens the innocent lordys , knytis , gentilis , and comonys
, and alle here jssv perpetuel , &c . PASTON,II,221.369.9747

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as I wrote last to +gowr maysterschip , the text of Jeremie c=o=
8=o= , ' Vere mendacium operatus est stilus mendax scribarum ' ;
PASTON,II,221.369.9748

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it folwith in the same place , ' Confusi sunt sapientes , perterriti et
capti sunt ; PASTON,II,221.369.9749

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
verbum Domini proiecerunt , et sapiencia nulla est in eis .
PASTON,II,221.369.9750

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Propteria dabo mulieres eorum exteris , agros eorum heredibus alienis ,
&c. ' PASTON,II,221.369.9751

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wolde myn lord Chauncelere and my specyal lord Erl , vtinam Duke , of
Warwyk , wyth al here trewe affinyte` , schuld remembre this text ,
which is Holy Scripture , &c. , as I wold do by-fore the Kyng and hise
lordys and at the Cros ; PASTON,II,221.369.9752

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the principil of this text hath be contynued in dayly experiens
sithe bifore the parlement of Bury . PASTON,II,221.369.9753

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But the conclusyon of this text came never +get to experiens ,
PASTON,II,221.369.9754

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that is gret rewthe . PASTON,II,221.369.9755

<P_II,222>

{COM:LATIN_OMITTED}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:39
LETTER:PASTON_369:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ex Norwico feria sexta post festum Sancti Luce Euuangeliste .
PASTON,II,222.369.9756

<Q_PAS_A_1460?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_370> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,223>

{ED:618._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PERHAPS_1460,_11_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my rythe reverent and most wurschipffull maistre , my Maister
John Paston the eldre , esquyer , at London in the Inner Tempyll .
</font> PASTON,II,223.370.9757

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ryght reuerent and my mooste wurschipfull maistre , I recomaunde me
vnto youre goode maistreschip . PASTON,II,223.370.9758

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Like you to witte that I haue taken astate in the londe at Gresham as
your maistreschip aviced me , wherfore I $beseche {TEXT:besche} you
that ther may be taken an axion in my feffe`s name and myn a-yenst
Jamys Catte as you semeth beest , and as hasty processe as may be had
a-yenst hym , with your goode avice ; PASTON,II,223.370.9759

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for what tyme as I had taken astate he labored to men of the town to
haue putte it in a-ward , PASTON,II,223.370.9760

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I wold not tyll I had spoken with your mastreschip , &c .
PASTON,II,223.370.9761

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also John Warles schal gather the rente and ferme of Basyngham this
yere . PASTON,II,223.370.9762

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , William Smythe schal occupie hes ferme this yere , and Croumer ;
PASTON,II,223.370.9763

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for the yeres aftre , I haue founde a meane that all your londes
schall be letten as weele as euer they weere in that maner , with helpe
of on Robert Coole , weche Robert fereth hym sore of the affence weche
he ded a-yenst John Herlyng ; PASTON,II,223.370.9764

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he is informed that your $maistreschip hath taken an axion a-yenst
hym , and John Herlyng hath do hym lost in the hundred xl d .
PASTON,II,223.370.9765

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he hath hym in the scheryffes turne . Wherfore that it like you to
withdrawe if any axion ye haue a-yenst hym , PASTON,II,223.370.9766

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he will abide any ij men award ther-aboute ; PASTON,II,223.370.9767

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and more-ouer he is the moost able man to take a ferme of lond that I
knowe in your lordeschip , PASTON,II,223.370.9768

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he schal be a gret fermour of youre the next yere .
PASTON,II,223.370.9769

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ferthermore ther is on Robert Wyghte , otherwice Furbusschour , aftre
that your officer of Matelask had ceaced al <P_II,224> Lyghtfot catell
for suche dwtees as whas owyng the seid Robert Wyght , come vpon your
bonde grounde PASTON,II,224.370.9770

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and brak doun the gardeyn dike of the seid Lyghtfotes
PASTON,II,224.370.9771

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and toke a-wey a bullok of ij yere age PASTON,II,224.370.9772

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hath caryed it a-wey out of your lordschip ; wherfore the tenauntes
desireth your maistreschip that ye woll take an axion a-yenst hym +tat
he may be punyssched . PASTON,II,224.370.9773

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for a dey at Mauteby , we can non geete
PASTON,II,224.370.9774

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for Wynston woll not of it in no wice . PASTON,II,224.370.9775

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for tidinges here , we here non but my lord of Wurcestre lithe
at Blakney and kepeth housold there in the Friers .
PASTON,II,224.370.9776

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Wymondham had entred in-to Felbryge PASTON,II,224.370.9777

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he whas put out be the comens , and like if {ED:he} had beden to
haue lost hese heed . PASTON,II,224.370.9778

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My ryght wurschipful mastre , All-myghty Jesu precerue and kepe you .
PASTON,II,224.370.9779

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:39?
LETTER:PASTON_370:M4:1460?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Heyneford on Sein Marteyn Day . Be your pore seruaunt and
bedman Richard Calle PASTON,II,224.370.9780

<Q_PAS_C_1450S_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_371> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,226>

{ED:622._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1460,_28_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and right welbeloued John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,226.371.9781

<P_II,227>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and right welbeloued , I grete you wele .
PASTON,II,227.371.9782

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And I am enfourmed that William Mathew of Norwich , bocher , hath
brought an accyon of dette agayn Nicholas Hert , a tenaunt of myn ,
berer herof , and hath supposid by his accyon that my said tenaunt
shuld ow hym lxx s. for his hire of tyme that he shuld a ben seruaunt
to my said tenaunt ; wher it is said to me for trouthe that he was
aprentyce to my said tenaunt and neuer otherwise withholde but as
aprentice , and owith no mony to haf of hym . PASTON,II,227.371.9783

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
I send to yow my said tenaunt to gif yow clere informacyon of the mater
. PASTON,II,227.371.9784

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And I pray you that ye wole calle the jurry before yow that arn
impanellid betwen thaym and opne thaym the mater at large at myn
instaunce , and desire thaym to do as concyens wole and to eschue
periury . PASTON,II,227.371.9785

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
And the Trinite` kepe yow . PASTON,II,227.371.9786

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
If ye take the mater in rule I pray therof PASTON,II,227.371.9787

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
and wole be content . PASTON,II,227.371.9788

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Weuenho the xxviij day of Decembre . PASTON,II,227.371.9789

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_371:M4:1450S:COPY:OTHER
The Erle of Oxenford PASTON,II,227.371.9790

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_372> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,229>

{ED:625._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1461,_18_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my maister John Paston esquyer . </font>
PASTON,II,229.372.9791

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please yor maisterchep to wete that I haue spokyn with Essexe jn the
mater that ye wete of , PASTON,II,229.372.9792

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and fynd hym be his talkyng wel dysposed , not withstandyng he woll not
falle to no conclusyon to engrose vp the mater tyll +te Chef Baron be
com to London and that he be mad prevy to +te mater , which we loke
after this same secund Saterday after Esterne ; PASTON,II,229.372.9793

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for Notyngham , he is not yet comyn to London .
PASTON,II,229.372.9794

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for tydyng , it is noysed and told for trouth of men of
worchip and o+ter that +te Erle of Wylchyre is taken , Doctour Moorton
and Doctour <P_II,230> Makerell , and be brougth to +te Kyng at York .
PASTON,II,230.372.9795

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Maister William also spak with a man that sey hem .
PASTON,II,230.372.9796

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , I herd of Ser John Borceter and Cristofer Hanson that
Herry the Sext is jn a place in York-schire is calle {ED:d} Corcumbre ;
PASTON,II,230.372.9797

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
suche a name it hath , or muche lyke . PASTON,II,230.372.9798

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And there is sege leyde a-bowte , and dyuers squyers of the Erle of
Northumberlandes PASTON,II,230.372.9799

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and gadered them to-geder a v or vj m=l= men to byger with the sege ,
that jn the mene while Herry the Sexte mygh {ED:t} haue ben stole a-way
at a lytyl posterne on +te bak syde ; at whiche byker ben slayn iiij
m=l= men of +te North . PASTON,II,230.372.9800

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ser Robert of Ocle and Conyers leyth the sege on oure syde ,
PASTON,II,230.372.9801

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thei it is +tat haue do this acte . PASTON,II,230.372.9802

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sum sey the Qwen , Somerset , and +te Prince schuld be there .
PASTON,II,230.372.9803

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , it is talked now for trouthe +te Erle of Northumberland is ded .
PASTON,II,230.372.9804

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , +te Erle of Devenschire is ded justely . PASTON,II,230.372.9805

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , my Lord Chaunceler is to York . PASTON,II,230.372.9806

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , the Kyng and +te lordys com not here be-fore Whitsontyde , as it
is sayde . PASTON,II,230.372.9807

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , sone vppon the Chef Baron comyng I schall send you a
letter , with Goddes grace , who preserue you and haue you in his
blyssed kepyng . PASTON,II,230.372.9808

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Plaiter PASTON,II,230.372.9809

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
At Cokermouthe was +te Erle of Wylchire taken , and these o+ter
doctours . PASTON,II,230.372.9810

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , sum men talke Lord Wellys , Lord Wyllouby , and Skales ben on
lyve . PASTON,II,230.372.9811

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_372:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Ser Robert Veer is slayn in Cornewayll , as it is told for
trouthe . PASTON,II,230.372.9812

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_373> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,230>

{ED:626._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1461,_PROBABLY_APRIL-MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,230.373.9813

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I lowly recomaund me to your maistership , thankyng you as a pouer man
may do his maister for socouryng my wyf , which I wote wele is wo
begone ; prayng you for love of Our Lord Jesu Criste to take no
displesir though <P_II,231> I not sent ne wrote to you herbeforn in
this troble that I haf ; PASTON,II,231.373.9814

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for parde` ye may conceyve that I was besy j-nogh to shifft my-self til
now . PASTON,II,231.373.9815

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Truly the noise cam sodeynly PASTON,II,231.373.9816

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I was with-ynne the walles of your cite` , PASTON,II,231.373.9817

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God sauf the gouernour therof PASTON,II,231.373.9818

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he was besy to trappe me , more besy than he wole be a-know , et
per fenestram in sporta dimissus sum per murum , et sic effugi manus
eius ; PASTON,II,231.373.9819

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but he shal abye , by God , if I lyf , for serchyng myn house .
PASTON,II,231.373.9820

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , ser , as for the fals noise , sauf your reuerence , that he leyth
on me and on tweyn seruauntz of myn , he lyeth falsly , your reuerence
savid ; PASTON,II,231.373.9821

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I may haf an c persones notable and thriffty , whan tyme comyth ,
that wole prove and make good by euery meane that my seruauntz which he
nameth wer that same our at Brisle` , which is thens more than xvj myle
, and that the same our and the same day and a greet space bothe beforn
and afftir . PASTON,II,231.373.9822

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But euer I besech your maistership of contynuaunce , and that ye like
to do my wif help and comfort in hir dissese ; PASTON,II,231.373.9823

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for if she wer not , God knowith , I shuld soone shyfft ,
PASTON,II,231.373.9824

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truly I haf no thought ne sorwe but for hir . Wherfore I besech you
lowly , for His love that all socourith and susteyneth , to be good
maister and comfort to hir . PASTON,II,231.373.9825

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It shal not be long to but that I shal send to hir to labour hir to
othre place . PASTON,II,231.373.9826

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for ony thyng touchyng me ellis but that , I pray you also if the
boy that is hurt dey to meve your tenauntz in that hundrid wher he was
bete to do for me and myn ; PASTON,II,231.373.9827

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ellis can I not desire ne write at this tyme for lak of remembraunce ,
PASTON,II,231.373.9828

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I am not yet myn own man ; besechyng you alwey of good maistership
, PASTON,II,231.373.9829

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Almyghty God knowith that the mater was falsly begunne on me ,
PASTON,II,231.373.9830

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and vsure it is and acursid ; PASTON,II,231.373.9831

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so wold Our Lord I neuer had knowyn it , PASTON,II,231.373.9832

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but sith I delid therwith I myght neuer reche it to handle the mater to
trouth or reson , wherfore I am compellid to do therwith vnresonably .
PASTON,II,231.373.9833

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , gentill ser , socour my wif , PASTON,II,231.373.9834

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and be not displesid with me , PASTON,II,231.373.9835

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than shal I do wele , with Goddes mercy , who Almyghty preserve yow
for his mercy . PASTON,II,231.373.9836

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn onavised , &c. PASTON,II,231.373.9837

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours , Denyes PASTON,II,231.373.9838

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray you socour my wif , PASTON,II,231.373.9839

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she is wedow yet for me PASTON,II,231.373.9840

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shal be til more is done , sith I se that neythre plee , trety , ne
werre may make my peas ; PASTON,II,231.373.9841

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I leve hir vndir your proteccion til I write to hir to go thens ,
which shal be hastily , I suppose , prayng you to be alwey hir good
maister , PASTON,II,231.373.9842

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I purpose not to se hir of a while though she remeve .
PASTON,II,231.373.9843

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_373:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wrete with sorwful hert , &c . PASTON,II,231.373.9844

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_374> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,233>

{ED:628._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1461,_EARLY_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my rigth reuerent and worchipfull John Paston , esquyer , or
to my maystres his wyf . </font> PASTON,II,233.374.9845

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After my most special recomendacion , lyke your maisterchip wete that
the mater for you and my maistrez your moder ayens Powtrell and Tanfeld
hath ben called vppon as dylygently and as hastely this terme as it
mygth be , and al-way dayes yoven hem by the court to answer ;
PASTON,II,233.374.9846

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than thei toke smale excepcions PASTON,II,233.374.9847

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and trifeled forth the court , PASTON,II,233.374.9848

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and al-wey excused them by-cause the bylle is long and his councell had
no leyser to se it . PASTON,II,233.374.9849

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And they prayed heryng of the testament of my maister your fader ,
PASTON,II,233.374.9850

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther-of made a no+ter mater PASTON,II,233.374.9851

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and argued it to putte hem fro it be-cause they had emparled to vs
by-fore ; PASTON,II,233.374.9852

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than Hyllyngworth , to dryve it over this terme , allegged varians
be-twyx the bille and the testament , that John Damme was named in the
testament John Dawne , jn whiche cas now the court must have sigth of
the said testement . Where-fore ye must send it vp the be-gynnyng of
the next terme , or ell we schall haue no sped in the mater .
PASTON,II,233.374.9853

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And ther-for , maistres , if my maister be not com hom and ye haue not
the sayd testament jn your kepyng , that than it plese you to speke
vn-to my maistres your moder jn lawe for the sayd testament , that I
mygth redely haue it here and that it be sealed jn a box and sent to me
, PASTON,II,233.374.9854

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I schall kepe it safe , with Goddys grace . PASTON,II,233.374.9855

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for tytyngys , in good feyth we haue non save the Erle of
Wylchir is hed is sette on London Brigge . PASTON,II,233.374.9856

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Maister William is reden hom to my Maistres Ponyngys ,
PASTON,II,233.374.9857

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for Maister Ponyngys hym-self , sche letteth as thow sche wyst
not where he were . PASTON,II,233.374.9858

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
A gentylman that kam fro York told me my maister was heyl and mery ,
and rode to mete the Kyng comyng fro Mydlam Castell .
PASTON,II,233.374.9859

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Berwyk is full of Scottys . PASTON,II,233.374.9860

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And we loke be lyklyhod after ano+ter batayll now be-twyx Skottys and
vs . PASTON,II,233.374.9861

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I pray Jesu haue you jn his blyssed kepyng . PASTON,II,233.374.9862

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_374:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Playter PASTON,II,233.374.9863

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_375> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,234>

{ED:629._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1461,_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my Maister Paston . </font> PASTON,II,234.375.9864

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull and myn especiall good maister , I recomaund me to
yow with all my seruice , besechyng you hertily at the reuerence of God
to help me now in the grettest extremite` that I cam at sith my greet
trobil with Ingham . PASTON,II,234.375.9865

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is not oute of your remenbraunce how Twyer jn Norffolk vexith me
bothe-3 by noise and serchyng myn hous for me so that theer I can not
be in quyete ; PASTON,II,234.375.9866

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all that , I am verrily acerteyned , is by Heydons crafft .
PASTON,II,234.375.9867

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And heer in the Kynges house annenst Howard , wher I had hopid to a
relevid my-self , I am supplanted and cast oute from hym by a clamour
of all his seruauntes at onys ; PASTON,II,234.375.9868

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ne wer oonly that his disposicion acordyth not to my pouer conceyte
, which makith me to gif lesse force , PASTON,II,234.375.9869

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
be-cause I desire not to dele ther bribery is like to be vsid ,
PASTON,II,234.375.9870

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ellis by my trouth this vnhappy vnkyndenes wold I trow a killed me .
PASTON,II,234.375.9871

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray yow at the reuerence of Jesu Criste to enfourme my lord of
Warwyk of me . PASTON,II,234.375.9872

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Parde` , I haf do hym seruice . PASTON,II,234.375.9873

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I was with hym at Northampton , PASTON,II,234.375.9874

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
that all men knew ; PASTON,II,234.375.9875

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now agayn at Seynt Albones , PASTON,II,234.375.9876

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
that knowith James Ratcliff , PASTON,II,234.375.9877

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther lost I xx li. wurth horse harneys and mony
PASTON,II,234.375.9878

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was hurte in diuerse places . PASTON,II,234.375.9879

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray yow to gete me his good lordship , and that I may be toward hym
in Norffolk in his courtes holdyng , or ellis if ony thyng he haf to do
; and that ye wole gete me a letter to Twyer to late me sit in rest ,
PASTON,II,234.375.9880

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now if I made any felaship agayn Twyer I can haf no colour now the
shirref and I be oute , PASTON,II,234.375.9881

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so I must kepe me aparte , which I am lothe to do , be God , if I myght
better do . PASTON,II,234.375.9882

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I besech yow to send me your jntent by the next man that come from yow
. PASTON,II,234.375.9883

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shuld a come to yow , PASTON,II,234.375.9884

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but , so help me God , my purs may no ferther . PASTON,II,234.375.9885

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Holy Trinite` preserve yow . PASTON,II,234.375.9886

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn hastily at York , &c . PASTON,II,234.375.9887

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_375:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yours to his power , Denyes PASTON,II,234.375.9888

<Q_PAS_C_1461_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_376> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,235>

{ED:630._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_1461,_31_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
<font> To owre right trusty and welbeloued John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,235.376.9889

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
Th'Erle of Oxenford PASTON,II,235.376.9890

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued , we grete yow well PASTON,II,235.376.9891

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
and pray yow , as owre trust is in yow , that if ye or any of yowre men
here that Howard purposith hym to make any aray at owre manor of Wynche
that ye woll lete John Keche , owre kepere ther-of , haue wetyng by
tymes ; PASTON,II,235.376.9892

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
for and he haue warnyng he will kepe it in-to the tyme that we come
thedir , with the grace of God , wiche haue yow in his kepyng .
PASTON,II,235.376.9893

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn in owre manor of Wyvynho the last day of Maij .
PASTON,II,235.376.9894

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_376:M4:1461:COPY:OTHER
Oxenford PASTON,II,235.376.9895

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_377> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,235>

{ED:631._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1461,_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my rigth good maister John Paston in all hast . </font>
PASTON,II,235.377.9896

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After my most special recomendacion , please your maisterche {ED:p}
wete the Kyng , be-cause of the sege a-boute Carelylle , chaunged his
day of coronacion to be vppon the Sunday nexst after Seynt John
Baptyste , to th'entent to spede hym northward in all hast ;
PASTON,II,235.377.9897

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and how be it , blyssed be God , that he hath now good tytyngges that
Lord Mountagu hath broken the sege and slayn of Scottes vj m=l= and ij
knygthes , wherof Lord Clyffordes brother is on , yet not wythstandyng
he wol be crowned the sayd Sunday . PASTON,II,235.377.9898

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And John <P_II,236> Jeney enfourmed me , and as I haue verely lerned
sethen , ye arn jnbylled to be made knygth at this coronacion .
PASTON,II,236.377.9899

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wheder ye haue vnderstandyng before hand I wot not ;
PASTON,II,236.377.9900

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but and it lyke you to take the worchip vppon you , consyderyng the
comfortable tytynges a-fore sayd , and for the gladnesse and plesour of
al your welwyllers and to the pyne and dyscomfort of all your
jlle-wyllers , it were tyme your gere necessarye on that by-halfe were
purveyd fore . PASTON,II,236.377.9901

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also ye had nede higth you to London , PASTON,II,236.377.9902

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for as I conceyve the knygthes schuln be made vppon the Saterday by-for
+te coronacion . PASTON,II,236.377.9903

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as moche as may be purveyed for you in secrete wyse withouten cost
I schall by-speke for you if nede be , a-yens your comyng , jn trust of
the best . PASTON,II,236.377.9904

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuerthelesse if ye be dysposed ye had nede send a man by-fore in all
hast , that no thyng be to seke . PASTON,II,236.377.9905

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
William Calthorp is jnbylled , PASTON,II,236.377.9906

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Yeluerton is jnbylled , whiche caused Markham , be-cause Yeluerton
loked to haue ben Chef Juge and Markham thynketh to plese hym thus .
PASTON,II,236.377.9907

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for the mater a-yens Poutrell , we can no forther procede tyl we
haue my maister your faders testament . PASTON,II,236.377.9908

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I sent my maistres a letter for it . PASTON,II,236.377.9909

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
No more , but I pray Al-myghty Jesu haue you jn his kepyng .
PASTON,II,236.377.9910

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_377:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Playter PASTON,II,236.377.9911

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_378> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,236>

{ED:632._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1461,_5_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right reverent and wourschipfull mastre , my Mastre John
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,236.378.9912

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right reuerent and worschipful mastre , I lowly recomaunde me vnto your
good mastreschip . PASTON,II,236.378.9913

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith you to witte +tat I haue ben at Framelyngham and spake Richard
Sothwell to hafe hes advice in this mater ; wherin he wolde geue me but
litel councel and seide ye were straungely disposed ,
PASTON,II,236.378.9914

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for ye trusted no man , PASTON,II,236.378.9915

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and had moche langage weche the berer herof schal enforme your
mastreschip . PASTON,II,236.378.9916

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for the letters , +tey were deliuerd my lorde at the logge ,
PASTON,II,236.378.9917

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I cowde not speke with hese lordeschip . PASTON,II,236.378.9918

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And suche tyme as they were delyuerd FitzWilliam whas there , weche is
now keper of Castre ; PASTON,II,236.378.9919

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and what tyme as my lorde had sene the letters he comaunded hym to
a-voide , PASTON,II,236.378.9920

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he did . PASTON,II,236.378.9921

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And thanne my lorde sent for Sothwell , PASTON,II,236.378.9922

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and in the meene tyme <P_II,237> my lorde sent a man to me
PASTON,II,237.378.9923

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and axed me where ye were ; PASTON,II,237.378.9924

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I tolde hem ye were with the Kyng , PASTON,II,237.378.9925

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he sent me worde that an answere schulde be made be Sothwell to
the Kyng , seyng that ij or iij eyers had ben with my lorde and shewed
her evidence and delyuerd it to my lorde , seyng +tey haue had gret
wrong , besechyng my lorde +tat it myght be reformed ; werfore he
comaunded me that I shulde go hom , PASTON,II,237.378.9926

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for other answer cowde I non haue . PASTON,II,237.378.9927

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
So I aboode vppon Sothwell to a know my lordes answer to the Kyng ,
weche answere Sothwel tolde me was +tat he writeth to the Kyng that
certeine pointes in your letteres be vntrew and that he schal preue
suche tyme as he cometh be-for the Kyng , besechyng the Kyng to take it
to no displesur , PASTON,II,237.378.9928

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he is advised to kepe it still vnto the tyme that he hath spoken
with his Highnesse , PASTON,II,237.378.9929

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he trusteth to God to schewe suche evidence to the Kyng and to the
lordes that he schulde haue best right and titill therto ;
PASTON,II,237.378.9930

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he sent a man forthe to +te Kyng this day .
PASTON,II,237.378.9931

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
It were right wele don ye awayted vpon hes man comyng , +tat ye myght
knowe the redy entent of my lordes writyng . PASTON,II,237.378.9932

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Berthelmewe Elyse hath ben with my lorde and made a relesse to my lord
, PASTON,II,237.378.9933

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Ser William Chamberleine was ther ij dayes a-fore I come thider , I
can thynke for the same mater . PASTON,II,237.378.9934

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Thomas Fastolf whas there +te same tyme +tat I was +ter ,
PASTON,II,237.378.9935

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as I am enformed they haue delyuerd my lorde serteine evidence ;
wherfore me semeth it were right wele don , savyng your better advice ,
to come hom and sele vp your evidence and haue hem with you to London ,
to proue his titill noght . PASTON,II,237.378.9936

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther be but ij or iij men within the place , PASTON,II,237.378.9937

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if ye thynke it best to etc. , send word PASTON,II,237.378.9938

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I suppose a remedy schal be had . PASTON,II,237.378.9939

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also I here no word of Mastre William nor of the writtes for the
parlament . PASTON,II,237.378.9940

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also it is toolde here that Tudenham and Heydon haue a pardon of the
Kyng and that they schal come vp to London with the Lady of Suffolk to
the coronacion . PASTON,II,237.378.9941

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , as for the letter +tat ye sent to $Thomas {TEXT:Thoms} Wyngfeld
, I haue it still PASTON,II,237.378.9942

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he is at London . PASTON,II,237.378.9943

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Som men sey he meved my lord for to entre , PASTON,II,237.378.9944

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and som sey FitzWilliam is in defaute , PASTON,II,237.378.9945

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
so I can see ther is but fewe goode . PASTON,II,237.378.9946

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , my mastre Ser Thomas Howys schal send a letter to the person ye
wote of for to deliuer you the gere at London the next weke .
PASTON,II,237.378.9947

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My right wourchipful and reuerent mastre , Almyghti God preserue you .
PASTON,II,237.378.9948

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Norweche on the morwe after Corpus Cristi Day .
PASTON,II,237.378.9949

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_378:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore $seruaunt {TEXT:serunt} and bedman R. C.
PASTON,II,237.378.9950

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_379> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,239>

{ED:635._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1461,_21_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right worshipfull Maister John Paston at Heylesdon in
Norffolk in hast . </font> PASTON,II,239.379.9951

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After due recomendacion hadde , please it your maistership to witte
+tat as for Plaiter he shall excuse +te writte of the parlement , &c .
PASTON,II,239.379.9952

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng my Maister Howard , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet speke
with hym ne with Moungomerye nothir ; PASTON,II,239.379.9953

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but as for +te day of +te coronacion of +te Kyng , it shall be
certeynly the Moneday next after Midsomer , PASTON,II,239.379.9954

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it is told me +tat ye among o+ter ar named to be made knyght atte
coronacion , &c . PASTON,II,239.379.9955

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , it is seid +tat +te coronacion doon the Kyng wole in-to +te
north part forthwith , and +terfor shall not +te parlement holde , but
writtes shall goo in-to euery shire to gyve them +tat ar chosyn
knyghtes of +te shire day after Michelmesse . PASTON,II,239.379.9956

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
This is told me by suyche as arn right credible .
PASTON,II,239.379.9957

<P_II,240>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Maister Brakle` shall preche at Poules on Sunday next comyng , as he
tolde me , PASTON,II,240.379.9958

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he tolde me that for cause Childermesse Day fal on +te Sunday the
coronacion shall on +te Moneday , &c . PASTON,II,240.379.9959

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn in hast at London the Sunday next to-fore Mydsomer .
PASTON,II,240.379.9960

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_379:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your right pouere seruaunt James Gresham PASTON,II,240.379.9961

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_WLOMNOR> <L_PASTON_380> <A_WILLIAM_LOMNOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,240>

{ED:636._FROM_WILLIAM_LOMNOR_1461,_6_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right worchipfull and my good maister John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,240.380.9962

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchipfull and my good mayster , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,240.380.9963

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , ser , yf the coronacion had be on Relik Sunday as it was apoyntyd
, I shuld haue waytid on yow . PASTON,II,240.380.9964

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for my lord of Norffolk mene , I told my mastres your wyfe here
disposission as I coude know , the wheche I sopose she told yow .
PASTON,II,240.380.9965

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As I can espye , somme of his meny was grette cause of T. D. deth , &c
. PASTON,II,240.380.9966

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also ye haue knowlych how Fastolff is com yn-to my lord of Norffolk
hous , for ij causez as I vnderestande : PASTON,II,240.380.9967

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
on is to enfors my lordes entre` yn Castre be his cleym ,
PASTON,II,240.380.9968

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
an o+ter is to helpe his fader yn lawe ayens Felbrigge , &c .
PASTON,II,240.380.9969

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For loue of Good take good awayte to your person ,
PASTON,II,240.380.9970

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the word is right wilde PASTON,II,240.380.9971

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and haue be sythyn Heydonz sauffe gard was proclamyd at Walsyngham ;
PASTON,II,240.380.9972

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yn good feyth I trow but if he be ponysshid the countre` wille rise
and doo moche harme , PASTON,II,240.380.9973

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also for the comyssionerz Ser Miles Stapilton and Calthorp , that
arn among the comvnez out of conseite and reputid the Kynges enme`z ,
as the brenger of this bille can telle yow , to whom I beseche yow to
be good mayster , PASTON,II,240.380.9974

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he hath doo the Kyng good seruyse as ony pore man of oure contre` ,
PASTON,II,240.380.9975

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet is he callid traitour be sweche as he can telle yow , soportid
be Roger Bolwere and Aleyn Roos , Heidonz owyn men , chif constablez .
PASTON,II,240.380.9976

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And it plese yow +tat John Yve and John Brigge myght haue your warentez
for cheffe constablez , &c. , PASTON,II,240.380.9977

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they ocupye yn Kyng Herris name . PASTON,II,240.380.9978

<P_II,241>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forthere , sere , I am gretly yn your danger and dette for my pension ,
PASTON,II,241.380.9979

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is told me ye haue paied , PASTON,II,241.380.9980

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at your comyng I shalle make amendez with your good maistreshep ,
PASTON,II,241.380.9981

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and suche seruyse as lith yn my pore powere is and $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} redy at alle tymez , with Goddes grace , how haue yow yn
his kepyng . PASTON,II,241.380.9982

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_380:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn yn hast at Dallyng on Sent Thomas Even , &c . Be your seruaunt L
PASTON,II,241.380.9983

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FO_JBERNEY> <L_PASTON_381> <A_JOHN_BERNEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,241>

{ED:637._JOHN_BERNEY_OF_WITCHINGHAM_TO_PASTON_WILLIAM_ROKEWODE_146
1,_10_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To the worshipfull John Paston and Wylliam Rokewode , squyeris ,
and to euerych of them . </font> PASTON,II,241.381.9984

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Right worshipfull cosynes , I recummaund me to +gow .
PASTON,II,241.381.9985

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And for as mech as that I am credybilly informyd how that Sir Mylis
Stapylton , knyght , with other yll dysposyd persones , defame and
falsly noyse me in morderyng of Thomas Denys the crowner , and how that
I intend to make jnsurrexcyones contrari vnto the lawe ; and that the
seyd Stapylton fer+termore noyseth me with gret robries ; jn whech
defamacyones and fals noysynges the seyd Stapylton &c. in that his
saying he is fals , that knowith God . PASTON,II,241.381.9986

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And for my playn acquetayll , yf he or any substancyall gentylman wyll
say it and avow it , I say to it contrari and by lisens of the Kyng to
make it good as a gentylman . PASTON,II,241.381.9987

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in this my playn exskeus I pray +gow to opyn it vnto the lordes
that the seyd Stapylton &c. makyn gret gaderynges of the Kynges
rebelyones , lying in wayte to mordre me . PASTON,II,241.381.9988

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in that I may make opyn proff , &c . PASTON,II,241.381.9989

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wretyn in hast the x day of July A=o= r. r. E. iiij j=o= .
PASTON,II,241.381.9990

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
John Berneye PASTON,II,241.381.9991

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_381:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Remembre to take a wryht to chese crowneres in Norffolk .
PASTON,II,241.381.9992

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FO_JBERNEY> <L_PASTON_382> <A_JOHN_BERNEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,242>

{ED:638._JOHN_BERNEY_OF_WITCHINGHAM_TO_PASTON_ROKEWODE_1461,_16_JU LY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To the worshipfull John Paston and to my cosyn Wylliam Rokewode
, squyer , with my lord of Cauntyrburi . </font> PASTON,II,242.382.9993

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Right worshipfull sir , I recummaund me to +gow , praying +gow hertyli
to labur for that the Kyng may wryte vnto me gevyng me thankyng of +te
good wyll and servyse that I haff doo vnto hym and in beyng with hym
a-+gens his aduersaries and rebelyones as well in the North as in this
cuntre` of Norffolk . PASTON,II,242.382.9994

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in that the Kyng shold please the comynnes in this cuntre` ,
PASTON,II,242.382.9995

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for they grudge PASTON,II,242.382.9996

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and sey how that the Kyng resayvith sych of this cuntre` , &c. , as
haff be his gret eanemyes and opresseris of the comynnes ,
PASTON,II,242.382.9997

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and sych as haff assystyd his Hynes be not rewardyt .
PASTON,II,242.382.9998

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And yt is to be consederyd , PASTON,II,242.382.9999

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or ellys it wyll hurt , as me semyth by reason ;
PASTON,II,242.382.10000

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and in and of this chaungabyll rewle it were nessessary to move the
good Lordes Spretuall and Temperall , by the whech yt myght be reformyd
, &c . PASTON,II,242.382.10001

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in cas that any of myn olde enemyes , Tudynham , Stapylton , and
Heydon , with theyr affenyte` , labur the Kyng and lordes vnto myn hurt
, I am and $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} redy to come to my souerayn lord for
myn exskeus , soo +tat I may come saff for vnlawfull hurt purveyed by
my seyd ennemyes . PASTON,II,242.382.10002

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nomore at this tyme , but God preserve +gow in gras .
PASTON,II,242.382.10003

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wretyn at Wychyngham the xvj day in the moneth of July A=o= r. r. E.
iiij=ti= j=o= . PASTON,II,242.382.10004

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
John Berneye PASTON,II,242.382.10005

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_382:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Please it +gow to move this vnto my lordes Cauntyrburi , Ely , Norwych
, &c . PASTON,II,242.382.10006

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FO_JBERNEY> <L_PASTON_383> <A_JOHN_BERNEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,242>

{ED:639._FROM_JOHN_BERNEY_OF_WITCHINGHAM_1461,_17_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To the ryght worshipfull John Paston , squyer , in hast .
</font> PASTON,II,242.383.10007

<P_II,243>

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir , I recummaund me to +gow , &c . PASTON,II,243.383.10008

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And as for my playn dysposyssyon towardes the vndyrshrewe , I wyll hym
noo bodyli hurt , PASTON,II,243.383.10009

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
nor $shall $not {TEXT:shalnot} be hurt by me nor by noo man that I may
rewle ; PASTON,II,243.383.10010

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but the comynnes throw all the shyer be movyd agayn hym for cause of
his lyght demeanyng towardes them for this elexsyon of knygttes of the
shyer for +te parlement . PASTON,II,243.383.10011

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And I suppose yf that he wyll he $may $be {TEXT:maybe} hastyli easyd as
thus : PASTON,II,243.383.10012

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
lat hym make notys vnto the seyd comynnes that this theyr eleccyon
shall stande , PASTON,II,243.383.10013

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or ellys lat hym purchas a new wryt PASTON,II,243.383.10014

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and lat hym make wrytyng vnto them what day they shall come , and they
to make a new eleccyon acordyng vnto the law . PASTON,II,243.383.10015

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And sir , I pray +gow sey to hym that it is nott his oneste` to lye
vpon soo many men , noysyng them rebyliones of Norffolk and B. theyr c
<em> ... </em> . PASTON,II,243.383.10016

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Nomore to +gow at this tyme , but I haff sent +gow ij letteris within
this viij dayes . PASTON,II,243.383.10017

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wretyn the xvij day of July A=o= r. r. E. iiij=ti= <em> ... </em> .
PASTON,II,243.383.10018

AUTHOR:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_383:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
John Berneye PASTON,II,243.383.10019

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_384> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,244>

{ED:641._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1461,_PROBABLY_JULY-AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To Maister John Paston , esquyer , in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,244.384.10020

<P_II,245>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please your maisterchip wete that Danyell of Greyes In enfourmed me
that Kyng of Dounham , whiche slewe Thomas Denys , is arested and jn
hold at Wysbyche , and had ben delyuered nor had Fraunceys Costard a
taken suerte` of pees of hym ; PASTON,II,245.384.10021

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he is kept jn by non o+ter mene but al ondly by suerte` of pees
. PASTON,II,245.384.10022

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as I felt by +te said Danyell if he be craftyly handeled he woll
accuse many o+ter , PASTON,II,245.384.10023

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but Danyell is loth to name hem ; PASTON,II,245.384.10024

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I suppose he ment by Twyer and yet o+ter mo , rigth sufficient and
kalled of substans . PASTON,II,245.384.10025

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Haydon hath payed ccccc marc . PASTON,II,245.384.10026

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and is delyuered . PASTON,II,245.384.10027

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , it is talked +tat +te parlement schal be proroged tyl +te iiij
day of Nouembre , and +te Kyng wol jn-to Scotlond in al hast .
PASTON,II,245.384.10028

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn in hast vppon +te Day of +te Advencion . PASTON,II,245.384.10029

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_384:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Plaiter PASTON,II,245.384.10030

<Q_PAS_C_1460S_T_JDEVERESR> <L_PASTON_385> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1408?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,245>

{ED:642._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1461,_25_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_385:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To owre right trusty and welbeloued John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,245.385.10031

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_385:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Th'Erl of Oxenford PASTON,II,245.385.10032

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_385:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and welbeloued , we grete yow well .
PASTON,II,245.385.10033

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_385:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And where as it is not <P_II,246> vnknowen to yow that we wrot a bille
to Maister Brakle` and yaf hym in comaundement to delyuer yow a bille
jndentyd of x mark owyng to John of Fen , as it apperith by a bille
jndentyd vnder the seall of Robert Reppes , jentylman , wich by the
will of John of Fen is due vn-to vs , wher-of the sayd Robert shuld
paye v mark by his owne jnstaunce at Lammesse next comyng ; we pray yow
that ye woll receyve the forsayd money for vs and delyuer it vn-to
Maister Brakle` as we trust yow . PASTON,II,246.385.10034

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_SR:MALE:_:1408?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_385:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn in owre manor of Weuenho the xxv=ti= daij of Julij .
PASTON,II,246.385.10035

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_386> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,246>

{ED:643._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1461,_23_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my right wurshypfull $and reuerent Maistyr John Paston at
Norwich . </font> PASTON,II,246.386.10036

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght wurshypfull ser and my right honourable maistyr , I recomaunde me
louly to you . PASTON,II,246.386.10037

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And plese youre maistirshyp to wete that my maistyr Clement youre
brothyr and Platere wrot a lettere to my maystyr youre sone yistirday ,
the tenure of whych was how ye were entretyd there .
PASTON,II,246.386.10038

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as ye desyred me , so I enformyd hem the matere along ,
PASTON,II,246.386.10039

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore they wist not of it til I teld hem ; PASTON,II,246.386.10040

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they wrete the more pleynerly inasmych as a wurshypfull man rood
the same day and bare the lettere to my seyd maistyr youre sone .
PASTON,II,246.386.10041

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Lord Bourgchere is with the Kyng , and my lord Warwyk still in the
North , &c . PASTON,II,246.386.10042

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , ser , thys day cam on John Waynflet from the Kyng streyt weye ,
PASTON,II,246.386.10043

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he is of myn aqueyntaunce ; PASTON,II,246.386.10044

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he teld me there was no voyse nore spekyng aboute the Kyng of that
matere . PASTON,II,246.386.10045

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I teld hym all the matere along hou ye were intretyd , whych he
wyll put in remembraunce in ony place that he cometh in in Suffolk ore
Esex as he goth homwardes , PASTON,II,246.386.10046

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore he owyth no good wil to youre aduersary . PASTON,II,246.386.10047

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the seyd Waynflet teld me that he knowyth for serteyn that the Kyng
cometh not in-to Northefolk til <P_II,247> he hathe been upon the
marchys of Walys , PASTON,II,247.386.10048

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so there is no serteynte` of hyse comyng thys many dayez .
PASTON,II,247.386.10049

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He teld me he lefte the Kyng with a smal felashyp aboute hym .
PASTON,II,247.386.10050

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I enqueryd hym of the gyding of my maystyr youre sone , whyche he
comendyd gretly and seyd that he stood well in conseyt and dayly shuld
increse , and he was well in aqueyntaunce and be-louyd with jentilmen
aboute the Kyng . PASTON,II,247.386.10051

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But he seyd there shal no thyng hurte hym but youre streytnesse of mony
to hym , PASTON,II,247.386.10052

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for withoute he haue mony in hyse purse so as he may resonably spende
amonges hem , ellys they wyll not sette by hem ;
PASTON,II,247.386.10053

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there be jentilmen sones of lesse reputacion that hath mony more
lyberal x tymez than he hath , PASTON,II,247.386.10054

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo in that the seyd Waynflet seyd it were full necessary fore you
to remembre , &c . PASTON,II,247.386.10055

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As fore tydinges , here bee noon newe , &c . PASTON,II,247.386.10056

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I truste I shal brynge you a lettere from my maystyr youre sone ore
thanne I come , fore whych I shal , rathere thanne fayle , abyde on day
the lengere . PASTON,II,247.386.10057

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Jesu haue you , my right honourable maistyr , in hyse mercyfull
gouernaunce PASTON,II,247.386.10058

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and preserue you from aduersyte` . PASTON,II,247.386.10059

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at London on Seynt Bertylmewys Euyn . PASTON,II,247.386.10060

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre bedeman and servaunt John Russe PASTON,II,247.386.10061

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I can speke with noo man but that thynke the gyding of youre aduersary
hath been in many causez ryght straunge , PASTON,II,247.386.10062

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as it is soposyd that he shal vndyrstonde at the parlament ;
PASTON,II,247.386.10063

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but fore Godes sake haue men j-now aboute yow , PASTON,II,247.386.10064

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_386:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore ye vndyrstonde is on-manerly dysposecion . PASTON,II,247.386.10065

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_JPAMPYNG> <L_PASTON_387> <A_JOHN_PAMPYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,247>

{ED:644._FROM_JOHN_PAMPYNG_1461,_6_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right worshipfull master John Paston the older , squier .
</font> PASTON,II,247.387.10066

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please yowr mastirship to wete that I haue be at Cotton and spoke wyth
Edward Dale , PASTON,II,247.387.10067

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he told me that Yeluerton and Jenney were there on Friday and toke
a distresse of xxvj or more bullokkes of the seid <P_II,248> Edwardes
in the park and drofe hem to a town therby ; PASTON,II,248.387.10068

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and a neyghbore there , vndirstandyng the bestes were Edward Dalis ,
and bond hym to pay the ferme or ellis to bryng in the bestes be a day
. PASTON,II,248.387.10069

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And whan the seid Edward vndirstod the takyng of the seid bestes he
went to Yeluerton and Jenney PASTON,II,248.387.10070

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and bond hym in an obligacion of x li. to pay hem his ferme at
Mighelmes , whech I told hym was not well do ; PASTON,II,248.387.10071

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I told hym ye had be abill to saue hym harmeles .
PASTON,II,248.387.10072

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And be-cause of discharge of his neyghbour he seid he myght non
other-wise do . PASTON,II,248.387.10073

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuirthelesse as for mony thei get noon of hym redely , ner of the
tenauntes nowthyr , as he can thynk yet . PASTON,II,248.387.10074

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The seid Yeluerton dyned on Friday at Cotton , PASTON,II,248.387.10075

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there chargid the tenauntes thei shuld pay no mony but to hym ,
PASTON,II,248.387.10076

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hath flaterid hem PASTON,II,248.387.10077

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seith thei shall be restorid ayen of such wronges as thei haue had
be Sir Philip Wentworth and other for Master Fastolff ;
PASTON,II,248.387.10078

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and because of such tales yowr tenauntes owe hym the bettir will .
PASTON,II,248.387.10079

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I purposid to haue gon to Cotton and spoke wyth the tenauntes ,
PASTON,II,248.387.10080

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Edward Dale told me he supposid thei wold be this day at Nakton .
PASTON,II,248.387.10081

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And because to speke wyth hem as ye comaundid me , I terid not
PASTON,II,248.387.10082

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but rod to Ipwich to my bed , PASTON,II,248.387.10083

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there at the Sonne was the seid Yeluerton and Jenney and Thomas
Fastolff ; PASTON,II,248.387.10084

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and myn ost told me that the same aftir-non thei had be at Nakton ,
PASTON,II,248.387.10085

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but what thei ded there I can not telle . PASTON,II,248.387.10086

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And whan I was vndirstand yowr man Hogon , Jenneys man , askyd suerte`
of pes of me PASTON,II,248.387.10087

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Jenney sent for an officer to haue had me to prison ;
PASTON,II,248.387.10088

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so myn ost vndirtoke for me that nyght . PASTON,II,248.387.10089

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And this day in the mornyng I went to Sen Lauerauns Chirche ,
PASTON,II,248.387.10090

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there I spak to hem PASTON,II,248.387.10091

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and told hem ye merveylid that thei wold take any distresse or warne
any of yowr tenauntes that thei shuld pay yow no mony .
PASTON,II,248.387.10092

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Yeluerton said ye had take a distresse falsly and ontrewly of hym
that ought yow no mony ner hem nowther , PASTON,II,248.387.10093

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid he was infeffid aswell as ye ; PASTON,II,248.387.10094

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for that I told hym he wost nere , PASTON,II,248.387.10095

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thow he were it was but to yowr vse , PASTON,II,248.387.10096

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so I told hym that men were infeffid in his lond , and that he
shuld be servid the same wythinne fewe dayes . PASTON,II,248.387.10097

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he seid he wost well ye were not infeffid in his lond ,
PASTON,II,248.387.10098

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if ye toke vpon yow to make any trobill in his lond ye shal repente
it . PASTON,II,248.387.10099

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also he seid that he wold do in like wise in alle maners that were
Sir John Fastolffes in Norffolk as thei haue begonne , and other
langage as I shall telle yow . PASTON,II,248.387.10100

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so I am wyth the gayler , wyth a clogge vp-on myn hele , for
suerte` of the pees ; wherefore please yowr mastirship to send me yowr
avise . PASTON,II,248.387.10101

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , John Andrews was wyth hem at Cotton , PASTON,II,248.387.10102

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thei haue set a man of the seid Andrews to kepe the plase .
PASTON,II,248.387.10103

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Wymondham , Debenham , and Tympirle` come to Yeluerton this
<P_II,249> day at masse PASTON,II,249.387.10104

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and speke wyth hym , PASTON,II,249.387.10105

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I speke to Tymperle` in yowr name that he wold not comforte ner be
wyth hem ayens {ED:yow}_NP in this mater ; PASTON,II,249.387.10106

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seid he vndirstod no such thyng , PASTON,II,249.387.10107

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
ner it was not his comyng hedir . PASTON,II,249.387.10108

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Ipwych the Sonday next before the Natiuite` of Owre Lady .
PASTON,II,249.387.10109

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_387:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yowre seruaunt John Pampyng PASTON,II,249.387.10110

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_388> <A_JAMES_GLOYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,249>

{ED:645._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_1461,_24_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

<P_II,250>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right reuerent and wurchepfull ser , I recomand me to your gode
maystershep , prayng you to wete +tat I was at Blakkes and spake with
his wiffe , and she seth he was not at home this iij wekes , he ridith
vp +te countre` to take accomptes of balys , and +tat +tis day
sevennyght he shuld haue sotyn in Caystre by you vp-on accountes and
fro thens he shuld haue redyn to Lynne , and +tat he shall be at home
vn Monday at nyght next comyng ; wherefore I haue left my heraund with
here , PASTON,II,250.388.10111

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but she seth +tat he shall not mown comyn to you
PASTON,II,250.388.10112

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for my lady haue sent for hym in gret hast bothyn be a letter and be a
tokyn to comyn to here as hastly as he may . PASTON,II,250.388.10113

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Notwithstandyng she shall do the herand to hym .
PASTON,II,250.388.10114

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$As $for {TEXT:Asfor} Yeluerton , I dede a gode fele to enquere of
Yemmys Skynner whan +te seid Yeluerton shuld go to London .
PASTON,II,250.388.10115

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He seid not this sevynnyght , PASTON,II,250.388.10116

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he cowde not tell what day till he had spokyn with his son .
PASTON,II,250.388.10117

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Hes sone shuld come to hym or his master shuld ridyn .
PASTON,II,250.388.10118

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I shall enquere more at Walsyngham . PASTON,II,250.388.10119

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And for Goddes loue be not to longe fro London ,
PASTON,II,250.388.10120

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for men seyn , there as I haue be , +tat my lord of Glowcetire shuld
haue Cayster . PASTON,II,250.388.10121

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And +ter is gret noyse of this revell +tat was don in Suffolk be
Yeluerton and Jeney , PASTON,II,250.388.10122

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and your wele-willeres thynkyn +tat if thei myght prevayle in this thei
wold attempt you in othere . PASTON,II,250.388.10123

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
But {ED:God} seas there pore and malyce PASTON,II,250.388.10124

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and preserue you from all evill . PASTON,II,250.388.10125

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And at +te reuerence of God lete sum interpretour go a-twix you and my
mastres your moder or ye go to London , PASTON,II,250.388.10126

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and all +tat ye do shall spede the better ; PASTON,II,250.388.10127

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for she is set on gret malyce , PASTON,II,250.388.10128

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and euery man +tat she spekith with knowith here hert
PASTON,II,250.388.10129

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it is like to be a fowle noyse $in all +te countre` withought it be
sone sesid . PASTON,II,250.388.10130

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , ser , it is told me that my lord of Norffolk is comyn to
Framyngham , and +tat ye be gretly comendyd in his howshold .
PASTON,II,250.388.10131

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Therefore it were wele do , me semyth , +tat ye spake with hym .
PASTON,II,250.388.10132

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Holy Trynyte` kepe you . PASTON,II,250.388.10133

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Norwich +te Thursday next after Sent Mathewe .
PASTON,II,250.388.10134

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_388:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore prest James Gloys PASTON,II,250.388.10135

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_HWINDSOR> <L_PASTON_389> <A_HENRY_WINDSOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,250>

{ED:646._FROM_HENRY_WINDSOR_1461,_4_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my full worshipfull and speciall gode maister John Paston ,
squyer , abidyng at Norwich . </font> PASTON,II,250.389.10136

<P_II,251>

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right worshipfull ser and some tyme my moost speciall gode maister , I
recommaunde me vnto your gode maistership with all my pour seruice if
it mey in any wise suffice . PASTON,II,251.389.10137

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And furthermore , ser , I beseche you , nowe beyng in your countre`
where ye mey deily call vnto you my maister Ser Thomas Howys , ones to
remembre my pour mater , and by your discrecions to take suche a
direccion theryn and so to conclude as mey be to your discharge and to
my furtherance , accordyng to the will of hym that is passed vnto Gode
, whose soull I pray Jesu pardone ; PASTON,II,251.389.10138

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for truly , ser , thar was in hym no faute , but in me onely , yf it be
not as I haue remembred your maistership affore thy {ED:s} tyme .
PASTON,II,251.389.10139

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
For truly , ser , I dar sey I shuld haue had as speciall and as gode a
maister of you as any pour man , as I am , withyn England shuld haue
hadd of a worshipfull man , as ye ar , yf ye had neuer medulled the
godez of my Maister F. , and asmoche ye wold haue done and labored fore
me in my right if it hadde byn in the handez of any oder man than of
your-self onely . PASTON,II,251.389.10140

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
But I truste in Gode at your next commyng to haue an answere suche as I
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} content with . PASTON,II,251.389.10141

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And yf it mey be so , I ame and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} your seruaunt
in that {in}_P I can or mey PASTON,II,251.389.10142

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
that knoith our Lord Jesu , whom I besech saue and send you a gode ende
in all your maters , to your pleiser and worship euerlastyng ,
PASTON,II,251.389.10143

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
amen . PASTON,II,251.389.10144

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Writon at London iiij=to= die Octobris . PASTON,II,251.389.10145

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$As $fore {TEXT:Asfore} tidynges , the Kyng $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} at
London withyn iij deies next commyng ; PASTON,II,251.389.10146

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and all the castelles and holdez both in South Walez and in North Walez
ar gyfen and yelden vp into the Kyngez hand . PASTON,II,251.389.10147

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And the Duc of Excestre and th'Erle of Pembrok ar floon and taken the
mounteyns , PASTON,II,251.389.10148

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and dyuers lordes with grete puissans ar after them ;
PASTON,II,251.389.10149

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the moost part of gentilmen and men of worship ar comon yn to the
Kyng and haue grace , of all Wales . PASTON,II,251.389.10150

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Duc of Somerset , the Lord Hungerford , Robert Whityngham , and
oder iiij or v squyers , ar comon into Normandy out of Scotland ,
PASTON,II,251.389.10151

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as yette they stand streit vnder arest ; PASTON,II,251.389.10152

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as merchauntez that ar comon late thens sey , they ar like to be
demed and iugged prisoners . PASTON,II,251.389.10153

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My Lord Wenlok , Ser John Cley , and the Dean of Seynt Seueryens haue
abiden at Cales thise iij wikes , PASTON,II,251.389.10154

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yette ar there abidyng a sauf-conduit , goyng vppon an ambassiate
to the Frenshe Kyng ; PASTON,II,251.389.10155

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Ser Wauter Blount , Tresorer of Cales , with a grete feleship of
souldeours of Cales and many oder men of <P_II,252> the Marches , haue
leyn and yette doo at a seege afore the castell of Hampmes by-side
Cales , PASTON,II,252.389.10156

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and deily make gret werre either parte to other .
PASTON,II,252.389.10157

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
At your commaundement , and seruaunt , Henry Wyndesore
PASTON,II,252.389.10158

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I send vnto you a copy of a letter that was taken vppon the see
, made by the Lord Hungerford and Whityngham . PASTON,II,252.389.10159

AUTHOR:HENRY_WINDSOR:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_389:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , we shall haue a gret ambassiate out of Scotland in all hast of
lordez . PASTON,II,252.389.10160

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_390> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,253>

{ED:647._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1461,_13_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght reuerent and wurschepfull maystre , my Mastre John
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,253.390.10161

<P_II,254>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith it your maystreschip to witte that Maystre John and I , with
other mo , haue ben at Cotton on Friday last passed , and there Jenney
had do warned the corte there to be the same Friday , and he was at Eye
at the cescions the Thorsday be-fore . PASTON,II,254.390.10162

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And on the Friday in the mornyng he was comyng to Cotton to hoolde the
corte there , PASTON,II,254.390.10163

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it fortuned we had entred the place or he come ;
PASTON,II,254.390.10164

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he herde therof PASTON,II,254.390.10165

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and turned bac a-yein to Oxon to my lorde of Norwiche ,
PASTON,II,254.390.10166

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there dyned with hym . PASTON,II,254.390.10167

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And my lorde sent Maystre John Bolleman to Cotton Halle to speke with
you , PASTON,II,254.390.10168

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and at hes comyng he vndre-stode ye were not there ; and if ye had my
lorde desired you to comen and spoken with hym , and that my lorde
desired to put your matre in a trety , in so moche that Maystre John
Bolleman tolde to my Maystre John Paston diuerse of your elmees had
labored to my lorde to haue a trety if he cowde brynge it a-boute , &c
. PASTON,II,254.390.10169

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for the tenauntes , they wolde not come at the place on-to the
tyme that I sent for hem , PASTON,II,254.390.10170

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they sey pleynly they woll not haue a do with hem ;
PASTON,II,254.390.10171

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so the corte whas holden in your name , and the tenauntes ryght
weele plesed therof excepte Thurnberne and Agas ,
PASTON,II,254.390.10172

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for any socour they haue there ryght noone at all .
PASTON,II,254.390.10173

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so Maystre John whas ther Friday all day and Saterday tyll none ,
PASTON,II,254.390.10174

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than he toke hes horse with xxx men with hym
PASTON,II,254.390.10175

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and rode to Jeney place PASTON,II,254.390.10176

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and toke there xxxvj heede of nete PASTON,II,254.390.10177

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and brought hem in-to Norfolk ; PASTON,II,254.390.10178

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so whas I lefte stille at Cotton with xij men with me , be-cauce
they report and we a-bode there ij dayes we schulde be pult out be the
heedes . PASTON,II,254.390.10179

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so we a-bode there v dayes PASTON,II,254.390.10180

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and kepte the place , PASTON,II,254.390.10181

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I walked a-boute all the $lordeschippes {TEXT:lodeschippes}
PASTON,II,254.390.10182

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and spake with all the fermours and tenauntes that longen to the maner
to vndrestande her disposessyon and to receyue money of hem ;
PASTON,II,254.390.10183

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I fynde {ED:hem} ryght weele disposed to you .
PASTON,II,254.390.10184

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And be-cauce the corte whas warned in ther name and not in youre ,
therfore they purvey no money ; PASTON,II,254.390.10185

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but they haue promysed me to pay no money to no man but to you , so
that ye woll safe hem harmeles ; PASTON,II,254.390.10186

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I tolde hem ye wold safe hem harmeles . PASTON,II,254.390.10187

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
They haue apoynted with me to make redy her money withinne a fornyght
aftre Hallowemesse , &c . PASTON,II,254.390.10188

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I haue receyved of the tenauntes that I vndrestod out you werst wyll
viij marc. , &c . PASTON,II,254.390.10189

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Edward Dalys money , it is redy so that your maistreschip
woll se that he be not hurt be hes obligacion . PASTON,II,254.390.10190

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ferthermore , $please $it {TEXT:plesit} your maistreschip to sende
worde , if they entre into the maner a-yein , how we schall be rwled
and gidyd ; PASTON,II,254.390.10191

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for the tenauntes fere hem they wol entre whan we be gon ,
PASTON,II,254.390.10192

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and than wol they distreyne the tenauntes , PASTON,II,254.390.10193

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they sey there that my lorde of Cauntyrbury and other lordes woll
relese to hem , notwithstandyng +tat I haue enformed hem other-wice .
Wherfore , savyng your better advice , me semethe it were ryght weele
doo that ye had a letter of my lorde of Cauntirbury and other to the
tenauntes <P_II,255> of Cotton that it is her wyll and entent that ye
schulde haue the rwle and gouernaunce and receyue the money of that
maner and other that were Ser John Fastolff , on whom God haue mercy ;
PASTON,II,255.390.10194

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I dought not and suche a lettre came downe to the tenauntes there
schulde no man sey nay to it . PASTON,II,255.390.10195

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Besechyng your maystreschyp to haue an answere of howe we schall be
gided and rwled , &c . PASTON,II,255.390.10196

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , to send worde howe we schall doo with the geere that wee toke
out at the Wyght Friers , wether it schall be sent to you or nought .
PASTON,II,255.390.10197

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Jesu precerue you . PASTON,II,255.390.10198

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_390:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Norwiche vpon Sein Edwardes Day . Be your seruaunt and bedman
Richard Calle PASTON,II,255.390.10199

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_391> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,256>

{ED:649._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1461,_5_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my moost reuerent and wurshipfful mastre , my Mastre John
Paston of the Enner Temple , this be delyuerd . </font>
PASTON,II,256.391.10200

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith your maystreship to vndrestande that as for the ferme that
Cheseman had in Boyton , that is to sey xl acre lond erable , j medwe ,
and other smale parcelles , payng yerly for it iiij li. , {TEXT:weche}
I can not lete the xl acre lond a-bowe xl comb barly or xl s. , and ye
to bere al charges of the reparaucion and fense aboute the place ,
weche shulde be gret cost . PASTON,II,256.391.10201

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The londe is so out of tylthe that a-nedes any man wol geve any thyng
for it . PASTON,II,256.391.10202

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther can no man lete it to the walwe that {to}_P it was lete be-fore ,
PASTON,II,256.391.10203

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and that I reporte me to my maystre Ser Thomas Howys not be gret gold .
PASTON,II,256.391.10204

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wherfore I wol not do therin vnto the tyme that I haue answere from
your mastreship , weche I beseche you it may be in hast .
PASTON,II,256.391.10205

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Spitlynges , I haue lete som of the lond in smale parcelles
because I cowde gete no fermour for it . PASTON,II,256.391.10206

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Ser T. H. in good feythe I fynde weele disposed in all
thynges excepte for Ser W. Chamberleyn , for Rees in Stratton , &c .
PASTON,II,256.391.10207

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Blissid Trinite` preserue and kepe you from all adversite` .
PASTON,II,256.391.10208

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Blofeld the Thorsday next after Hallowemesday .
PASTON,II,256.391.10209

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_391:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore seruaunt and bedman R. Calle PASTON,II,256.391.10210

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_392> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,257>

{ED:650._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1461,_20_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght reuerent and wurschipfull mastre , my Mastre John
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,257.392.10211

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith it your maysterchip to witte that I haue receyved at Cotton sin
that I departed from you last iiij li. and ij s. , with the weche money
I haue bought lenen clothe for schetes , schertes , and smokkes , and
sent it thedre like as ye comaunded me to do . PASTON,II,257.392.10212

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And a-yenst Cristemes I schall haue more money .
PASTON,II,257.392.10213

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Debenham , Jenney , nor non of ther men , as I vndrestand , come not
there son that I whas there . PASTON,II,257.392.10214

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Nakton , ther is made a lettre of attorney in your name to
Ser John Hevenyngham , knyght , a rentall and fermall sent to hym .
PASTON,II,257.392.10215

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for Calcotte , we kepte a coorte there thys weke ,
PASTON,II,257.392.10216

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but as for money we cowde gete but litell , not so moche as I payed to
my lady of Suffolk officers . PASTON,II,257.392.10217

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for the fermelondes that longeth to Calcotte , your fermours nor
tenauntes woll ocupie non of thoo londes vnto the tyme they knowe ther
be $appoyntment {TEXT:appoytment} made be-twix you and Debenham .
PASTON,II,257.392.10218

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Rysyng , he woll ocupye non of the londes tyll he hathe
worde from your maysterchip . PASTON,II,257.392.10219

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for a dey at Mautby , we can non geete ,
PASTON,II,257.392.10220

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for as for Wynston he woll not of it in no wice .
PASTON,II,257.392.10221

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
We haue assayed other , PASTON,II,257.392.10222

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but they woll not geve a nobyll for a kowe nor vj s. nouther . Wherfore
if it be so that Risyng schall not occupie the londes at Calcotte he
wold haue Mautby to ferme , and haue your closes that longeth to Castre
. PASTON,II,257.392.10223

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ferthermore , Dey occupiethe your londes at Mautby be the ouersyght of
Alexander Cokk vnto ye come hom . PASTON,II,257.392.10224

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for the prestes , they schall be payed as hastely as we can
gete money , weche $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} as I suppose or this weke
passe . PASTON,II,257.392.10225

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for the price of wheete here , xij d. a comb , barly viij d.
, malte ix d. and x d. the beste ; PASTON,II,257.392.10226

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and wee can here non goode price of malt in no place savyng as we
vndrestand it is goode {ED:in} Flaunders , PASTON,II,257.392.10227

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but what price we can not witte verely . Wherfore inasmoche as John
Russe and Robert Glouer sendethe a schip with corne ouer we haue
a-venterd with hem c=a= comb malt . PASTON,II,257.392.10228

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Me semyth it were weele don , with your better advice , to make som
bargein with som of your beere brewers , PASTON,II,257.392.10229

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and we schall fynde the meane that it come thedre , be the grace of God
. PASTON,II,257.392.10230

<P_II,258>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for Aleynes fermour of Gresham , we can gete no money of hym
son ye rode but xl s . PASTON,II,258.392.10231

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as to other fermours and tenauntes , I schall ride to them thys
weke , be the grace of God . PASTON,II,258.392.10232

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for beef to your howsold , we haue purveyd j-nough be-twix
this and Fastegang of your tenauntes in Norffolk and Suffolk .
PASTON,II,258.392.10233

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as {ED:for} my Mastre Edmund Paston , Ser Thomas Howes hathe
aviced my mastresse to send hym nouther to Cambregge nor to non other
place tyll aftre Cristemesse , PASTON,II,258.392.10234

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he thynketh he schuld do but loce hes tyme .
PASTON,II,258.392.10235

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , plesith your mastreschip to meve my Mastre Clement your brother
to gete a writte for Geffrey Clerk of Westesomerton to delyuer the xx
s. that Levys {ED:payed}_VBD for my seid Mastre Clement ,
PASTON,II,258.392.10236

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for the seid Clerk can not sey nay but that Levys toke it hym to
th'entent that he schuld pay it to my Mastre Clement at suche tyme as
he were desired ; PASTON,II,258.392.10237

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and nough he woll not pay it . PASTON,II,258.392.10238

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He goude not sey nay be-fore me and other men of Wynterton , but that
the mone` whas taken hym to this entent . Wherfore pleace it your
mastrechip and my Mastre Clement to se som remedy , that the pore man
loce it nought . PASTON,II,258.392.10239

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plese your mastreschip to remembre the letter weche I send you the last
weke , &c . PASTON,II,258.392.10240

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My ryght reuerent and wurschipfull mastre , Almyghty Jesu preserue ,
forther , and kepe you . PASTON,II,258.392.10241

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_392:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Castre on Seind Edmundes Daye . Be your pore seruaunt and
bedman Richard Call PASTON,II,258.392.10242

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTON_393> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1577> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,258>

{ED:651._FROM_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_1461,_12_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To myn ryght worchipffull cosyn John Paston the elder , esquyer
, be this letter deliuered in hast . </font> PASTON,II,258.393.10243

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchipfull cosyn , I recomaunde me to you in as hertely wyse
{in}_P I can , desyryng euer to here off youre welffare , whiche I
beseche oure Lord Jesu to preserue to youre hertes pleaser , &c .
PASTON,II,258.393.10244

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , ye sent me a letter off atorney to reseyue and to ocupye in youre
name +te maner called Burnevyles in Nakton . PASTON,II,258.393.10245

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , as for that ocupacion I can litil skylle on ,
PASTON,II,258.393.10246

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne I wel not take <P_II,259> vp-on me non suche ocupacionis ; wherffore
I beseche you holde me excused , PASTON,II,259.393.10247

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for it is no werd for me to take suche ocupacionis .
PASTON,II,259.393.10248

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue as moche as I may to gader myn owune lyfflode ,
PASTON,II,259.393.10249

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and truli , cosyn , I can not gadere that well .
PASTON,II,259.393.10250

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therffore , cosyn , I pray you take it to non displeaser .
PASTON,II,259.393.10251

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , that I may worchipffulli doo fore you ye shal fynde me redy , be
+te grace of Jesu , whom I hertely beseche to haue you in hise
mersyffull kepyng . PASTON,II,259.393.10252

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:-116
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_393:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Heuenyngham on Seynt Lucye Even . Be youre cosyn John
Heuenyngham , Knyght PASTON,II,259.393.10253

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_394> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,261>

{ED:653._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1461,_29_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght reuerent and my moost wurschipfull maystere , my
Maystre John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,261.394.10254

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right wurshipfull and my mooste reuerent mastre , I recomaunde me vnto
your goode maystreship . PASTON,II,261.394.10255

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Like you to witte on Childremasse Daye there were moche people at
Norwich at the shire , be-cauce it was noyced in the shire that the
vndresheriff had a writte to make a newe aleccion ; wherfore the people
was greved be-cauce they had labored so often , seyng to the sherif
that he had the writte and pleynly he shulde not a-wey vnto the tyme
the writte were redd . PASTON,II,261.394.10256

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The sherif answerd and seyd that he had no writte , nor west who had it
. PASTON,II,261.394.10257

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Hervppon the people peacyd and stilled vnto the tyme the shire was
doone , PASTON,II,261.394.10258

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and after that doone the people called vppon hym , ' Kylle hym ,
PASTON,II,261.394.10259

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
heede hym ! ' PASTON,II,261.394.10260

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so John Dam , with helpe of other , gate hym out of the schirehows
PASTON,II,261.394.10261

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and with moche labour brought hym in-to Sporyer Rowe .
PASTON,II,261.394.10262

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And there the people mett a-yenst hym , PASTON,II,261.394.10263

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so they a-voided hym into an hows PASTON,II,261.394.10264

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and kept fast the dores vnto the tyme the meyer was sent fore , and the
sherif , to strenght hym and to convey hem a-wey , or ell he had be
slayne . Wherfor diuers of the $thrifty men come to me desiryng that I
shulde writte vnto your maistreship to lete you haue vndrestandyng of
the gidyng of the people , for they be full sory of this trowble ; and
that it plese you to sende hem your advice how they shal be gided and
rwled , PASTON,II,261.394.10265

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they were purposed to a gathered an c or cc of the thriftyest men
and to haue come vp to the Kyng to lete the Kyng haue vndrestandyng of
ther mokkyng . PASTON,II,261.394.10266

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also the people fere hem sore of you and of Mastre Berney be-cauce
ye come not home . PASTON,II,261.394.10267

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plese you that ye remembre the bill I sent you at Hallowmesse for the
place and londes at Boyton weche Cheseman had in his ferme for v mark .
PASTON,II,261.394.10268

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther wol no man haue it a-bove xlvj s. viij d . PASTON,II,261.394.10269

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Alblastre and I haue do as moche therto as we can ,
PASTON,II,261.394.10270

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but we can not go a-bove that ; PASTON,II,261.394.10271

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yet we can not lete it for this yere with-owte they haue it for v
or vj yere . PASTON,II,261.394.10272

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I wrote to your mastreship herof , PASTON,II,261.394.10273

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I had non answere ; wherfor I beseche you that I may haue answere
of this be Tlwelthe , PASTON,II,261.394.10274

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for and we haue an answere of this be that tyme we shall enfeffe hem
withall , etc . PASTON,II,261.394.10275

<P_II,262>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My right wurshipfull and my moost reuerent maistre , Almyghty Jesu
preserue you PASTON,II,262.394.10276

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and send you the victorye of your elmyes , as I truste to Almyghty Jesu
ye shall . PASTON,II,262.394.10277

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Norwich on Seyn Thomas Daye after Cristemasse Daye .
PASTON,II,262.394.10278

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_394:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore seruaunt and bedman R. Call PASTON,II,262.394.10279

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_395> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,262>

{ED:654._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1461,_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To John Paston the older in hast , and if he be not at London
than to be delyuered $to Clement Paston in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,262.395.10280

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Lyke your maisterchip wete that at the last cessyons Erpyngham hundred
and o+ter hundredys ther-aboute were not warned , and the schreff
excused hym be-cause he cowde not knowe who was officer there .
PASTON,II,262.395.10281

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Yeluerton lete the pepoll vnderstand that the Kyng wold haue his
lawes kept , and that he was dysplesed with the maner of ther gaderyng
and that he wold haue it amendyd ; PASTON,II,262.395.10282

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he conceyveth that the hole body of the shire is well dysposed and
that the ille dysposed pepoll is but of a corner of +te hole shire ,
and yet that ther mysdoyng growyth not of ther owyn dysposysyon but of
+te abbettement and steryng of sum ille dysposed persones whiche is
vnderstand and knowe to +te Kynges Hygthnesse . PASTON,II,262.395.10283

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , he lete hem wete that +te Kyng had commandyd hym to sey if ther
were ony man , pore or ryche , that had cause to complayne of ony
person that he schuld put vp his bylle to the shref and hym , and they
schuld set a reule be-twyx hem ; PASTON,II,262.395.10284

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if he wold not a-byde ther reule they schuld delyuer the sayd bylle
of compleynt to +te Kynges Hignesse PASTON,II,262.395.10285

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he schuld set rewle and suche dyreccion that the party compleynaunt
or deffendaunt schuld be punysshed for his dysobeysauns of the said
rewle if the case requyred . PASTON,II,262.395.10286

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also more-ouer , if ther were ony person that put vp ony suche
bylle and it mygth apere to them by ther examinacion or o+ter-wyse fals
or vntrewe , or ell be-cause of malyce , that than suche compleynauntes
schuld sharpely be punysshed . PASTON,II,262.395.10287

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And than whan he had seyd this and moche more in dyscoragyng to +te
pepoll to put bylles , as after my conseyt , he reported hym to +te
schref ther present that +te Kyng thus commanded hem thus to sey ,
desyreng +te said schref if ony thyng of +te <P_II,263> Kynges
commaunded were be-hynd vnspoken by hym-self that he wold remembre and
help forth to telle it . PASTON,II,263.395.10288

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And than the schref said lyke as he rehersed the Kyng commanded , and
more-ouer that the Kyng named ij men , by name Tudenham and Haydon ,
PASTON,II,263.395.10289

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if ony man wold put ony bylles a-yens them he said in feythfull
wyse he wold help hem and forther +te mater to +te Kynges Higthnesse .
PASTON,II,263.395.10290

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And for his demenyng there euery man thougth hym rigth wel dysposed ;
PASTON,II,263.395.10291

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but Yeluerton had for-yeten to expresse the names of Tudham and Haydon
. PASTON,II,263.395.10292

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , +te schref desyred the jentylmen to go with {ED:hym}_NP to
Felbryg Halle , PASTON,II,263.395.10293

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and specially he requyred Maister John P. the yonger ;
PASTON,II,263.395.10294

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he cowde no pepoll gete PASTON,II,263.395.10295

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so he cam not there . PASTON,II,263.395.10296

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , there was a bylle set vp-on the shirehous dore ,
PASTON,II,263.395.10297

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the content therof was but of the fauour to you ward , Barnay ,
Knyvet , and Felbrygge , and of the hatered of o+ter ;
PASTON,II,263.395.10298

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
it was but of sum lewde dysposed person , it semeth .
PASTON,II,263.395.10299

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , at +te last shire was moche pepoll and ille gouerned ,
PASTON,II,263.395.10300

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they wold not be rewled be no body . PASTON,II,263.395.10301

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
They had almost a slayne the vnderschryf , PASTON,II,263.395.10302

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for they told hym wryttes of eleccion was sent doun
PASTON,II,263.395.10303

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he kept it on syde to be-gyle hem and to make hem labour a-yen ;
PASTON,II,263.395.10304

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther-for he that kepyth it is to blame , me thynketh .
PASTON,II,263.395.10305

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , please you to telle Maister Clement we haue goten a reles
of al maner accions and appelles of Margret Clerk , made to Gymmyngham
, on of +te pryncypalles , and that he woll jnquyre wheder it be
sufficyant for alle and send me word , and weder it dyuers fro trespas
and dette where damage is to be recouered , PASTON,II,263.395.10306

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for in this appell is no damage to be recouered but only an execucion ,
whiche non of them may be contrybutory to o+ter execucion as is in
o+ter cases . PASTON,II,263.395.10307

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuertheles I hope it be sufficiant for all , PASTON,II,263.395.10308

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for sche is in +tis cas to have the lyflode in-stede of damage .
PASTON,II,263.395.10309

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:40
LETTER:PASTON_395:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Playter PASTON,II,263.395.10310

<Q_PAS_C_1462_T_JKETERYCHE> <L_PASTON_396> <A_JOAN_KETERYCHE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,265>

{ED:656._JOAN_KETERYCHE,_ABBESS_OF_DENNY_ABOUT_1461-2,_31_JANUARY} _@

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To +te right worschipfull jentilman Paiston , executure to Syr
John Fostolff . </font> PASTON,II,265.396.10311

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Iesus PASTON,II,265.396.10312

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Reuerent and worschipfull syr , aftyre due recomendacoun premisyd ,
plesythe +gou at +te reuerens of owre spouse Iesu , to qwom we be
wilfully professyd , to here gracyousely owre humble petyscioun , as
nowe compellyd eythere to compleyn vs eythere ellez to suffre owre
devout place falle and perysche in owre dayis , qwyche hathe been so
longe tyme wrongffully oppressid be plee for owre beste and moste
substancyal lyuelode ; so +tat owre goode and holsom modyre +tat was
abbesse is so weriyd and brokyn wyth thowt +tat sche is ouere-throwyn
wyth daily seeknes , vn-habill to occupie +te offyz , and we compellyd
a+gens owre wille , +gif it myht odyrvyse a been , to chese anodyre ,
be +te qwyche eleccioun aftyre owre custume we muste paye to +te
Bischope of Lyncolne xx marke and to +te Bischope of Norwyche as myche
. PASTON,II,265.396.10313

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as to +te payment of +te Bischope of Lyncolne we be so streytly
boundyn +tat +te seyde lord may streyne owre goodys of +te qwyche we
haue owre nescessary sustenaunce ; PASTON,II,265.396.10314

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and nowt only we be thuse putte in discomforte and hevynesse ,
PASTON,II,265.396.10315

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but also owre jeuellys , qwyche were ordeynid of owre fyrste fundacoun
to araye owre chyrche and to stere vsse and provoke othere to worschipe
God and to haue owre benefactoris in more fresche remembraunz , are now
for nede leyde in morgage and summe loste for euere , ande othere in
haste lyke to be loste , PASTON,II,265.396.10316

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +terto owre placys besyde alle +tis misery are so far decayde be
noun-reparacoun +tat we may <P_II,266> nowt weel repayre +tem a+geen ,
PASTON,II,266.396.10317

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so owre tenauntys are +te more pore PASTON,II,266.396.10318

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +te wersse +tei mey paye to vs +te deute`z of +teire fermes ;
PASTON,II,266.396.10319

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and , reuerent syr , I beynge ful symple and +gonge of age and chosyn
to be $abbesse of +tis wrongfully oppressyd place , God knowyth ful
myche a+gens my will , jn my compleynt makyng to God I was put in mynde
of +te goodys +tat been in +goure handys , and also of +goure holsom
and goode disposiscoun ; qwyche +gaue me a gret corage to make my
petyscoun to +gou for +te recouere of owre pore place , besechynge
+goure goodenesse to consydre how we be closyd wyth-jnne +te ston
wallys and may non odyrvyse speke wyth +gou but only be wrytynge , and
+te ratheere socoure vs for Owre Lordys loue wyth sweche goodys as we
may contynue stylle +te servaunt of Iesu , and odyre aftyre vs in lyke
vyse ; +te qwyche we wolde thynke to vs as a newe fundacoun .
PASTON,II,266.396.10320

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And so in owre suffragys we wolde annexe +te soule of +tat worthi knyht
Syr John Fastolff and swyche odyre as +ge will desyre vn-to +te soule
of owre blyssid foundatrice ; PASTON,II,266.396.10321

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and , worschipful syr , it is more esy as +geet to releve vs vp a+geen
+tan to belde a newe place , qwyche I truste veryli +ge wolde doo +gif
+ge knewe +te blyssid dispocissioun of my weel disposyd modris and
sustris ; be qwos goode conuersacoun I trust in Iesu to haue of +gou
summe socoure and comfort now at my moste hevy begynnynge .
PASTON,II,266.396.10322

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +gif Owre Lord wolde move +goure hert to see owre pore place , I
truste verily to God we schulde haue +gou and +gouris euere aftyre in
goode remembraunz . PASTON,II,266.396.10323

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The bryngere of +tis symple lettre wrytin in greet hevynes hathe
experience of alle owre jnportable hurtys before rehersyd , +te qwyche
trewly was +te cause +tat he wold of his owne coostis be messangere .
PASTON,II,266.396.10324

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Owre blyssid Lord revard hym +terfore , qwyche euere preserve +gou and
+gouris body and soule in goodenesse for hise gret mercy .
PASTON,II,266.396.10325

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wrytyn at Denneye +te laste day of Januere . PASTON,II,266.396.10326

AUTHOR:JOAN_KETERYCHE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_396:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Goure pore bedewoman Jone Keteryche , Abbesse of Denneye
PASTON,II,266.396.10327

<Q_PAS_D_1460S_FO_EMUNDFORD> <L_PASTON_397> <A_ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,266>

{ED:657._ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD_AFTER_1460,_BEFORE_1467;_FEBRUARY}_COD E

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To my right worchipfull ser and my right good neveu John Paston
, squyer , be this lettre delyuered , &c . </font>
PASTON,II,266.397.10328

<P_II,267>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Right worchipfull ser and my right good neveu , I recomand me vn-to you
with all myn herte . PASTON,II,267.397.10329

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Plece it you to vndyrstande the grete nessessyte` of my wrytyng to you
is this , that ther was made an exchaunge be the graunsyre of my
husbondys Mundeford , vn hose sowle God haue mercy , of the maner of
Gressenale with the aunsetrys of Rows for the maner of Estlexham , the
qwych is parte of my juntor ; PASTON,II,267.397.10330

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and my grauntfadyr Mundeford recoweryd the seyd maner of Estlexham be
assyze a-geyne the aunsetrys of Rows PASTON,II,267.397.10331

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and so $mad $yt-SBJ {TEXT:madyt} clere . PASTON,II,267.397.10332

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And now hone Edmund Rows claymyt the seyd maner of Estlexham be the
verteu of a tayle , PASTON,II,267.397.10333

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and hathe takyn possescion and made a feffement to my lord of Warewyke
and Water Gorge and to Cvrde ; PASTON,II,267.397.10334

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and vn Fryday be-for Seynt Walentyne is Day Water Gorge and Cvrde
enteryd PASTON,II,267.397.10335

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and toke possessyon for my seyd lord of Warewyke .
PASTON,II,267.397.10336

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And so bothe the forseyd manerys were ontayled ,
PASTON,II,267.397.10337

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and at the tyme of the exchaunge made the tayles and evydens of bothe
for-seyd manerys were delyuered vn-to the partyes indeferently , be the
avyse of men lernyd . Qwerfor I beshech you that it plese you to take
the grete labor vpon you to informe my lordys good lordchep of the
trowthe in the forme a-bowyn wreton , and that it plese you to
vndyrstande qwedyr that my lord wyll a-byde be the feffment made to hym
or not ; and that it shall plese my lord that I may haue right as lawe
requeryt , PASTON,II,267.397.10338

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
for I trust to God be svche tyme as my lord shall be informyd of the
trowthe be you that hese lordchip wyll not supportt the forseyd Rows
a-geyne my right . PASTON,II,267.397.10339

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And if I hadde very vndyrstandyng that my lord would take no parte in
the mater a-bowe seyd I would trust to Goddys mersy and to you and
other of my good fryndes to haue possession a-geyne in right hasty tyme
, beshechyng you to pardon me of my symple wrytyng ,
PASTON,II,267.397.10340

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
for {ED:I} hadde no leyser . PASTON,II,267.397.10341

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Right worchipfull and my right good neveu , I beshech the Blyssed
Trenyte` haue you in hese gracyous kepyng . PASTON,II,267.397.10342

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Wreton at Norwych in grete hast the Tewysday next aftyr Seynt Walentyne
is Day . PASTON,II,267.397.10343

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MUNDFORD:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:KIN:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_397:M4:1460S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Youre ovyn Elyzabeth Mundeford PASTON,II,267.397.10344

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_398> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,271>

{ED:661._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1462,_1_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght reverent and my mooste $wurschipful maistre , my
Maistre John Paston , in the Inneer Tempyll . </font>
PASTON,II,271.398.10345

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your maistreschip to witte that I haue been at Burnewylles
in Nacton to receyve the rentes and fermys of the tenauntes .
PASTON,II,271.398.10346

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I vndrestande be them and be Robert Goordon that Mastre Jenney whas
there and helde a coorte on the Mondaye next aftre Tlwelthe , and
warned the tenauntes that they schulde pay no money to no man onto the
tyme they had worde from hym , seyng that he whas on of the feffeys of
the same maner and that he whas feed with Ser John Fastolff , of weche
fee he was be-hynde for ij yere ; wherfore he desired the tenauntes
that they schulde not be redy in payement onto the tyme they had word
from hym , but that he myght be payed of hes seide fee lyke as the
wylle of the deede was . Wherfore I can gete no money of them vnto the
tyme they haue knowleche how it stond be-twyx your mastreship and
Mastre Jenney ; PASTON,II,271.398.10347

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for withoute Jenney write to hem , or come homward that wey and haue
the tenauntes to-gether and lete hem witte that ye ought to haue the
rentes and fermes of the seid maner , I can not see that ye be like to
haue but litell money there withoute ye wol do distreyne throuout all
the lordeschip . PASTON,II,271.398.10348

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue sette dayes to purvey her money a-yenst the first weke of Cleene
Lenton , PASTON,II,271.398.10349

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and than they shul haue an answere who shal receyve it ; wherfore that
it plese your maistreship to remembre to speke to Mastre Jenney .
PASTON,II,271.398.10350

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Blissed Trinite` precerue you PASTON,II,271.398.10351

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and kepe you from all advercyte` . PASTON,II,271.398.10352

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Yebbyshep the furst daye of Februar . PASTON,II,271.398.10353

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pore $seruaunt {TEXT:seruunt} and bedman R. Call
PASTON,II,271.398.10354

<P_II,272>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the maner of Stratton shuld paye of rente xxvj s. viij d. ,
weche the fermour seythe my Mastresse Brandon is acorded with you .
PASTON,II,272.398.10355

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_398:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He is behynde for certeine yeres , &c . PASTON,II,272.398.10356

<Q_PAS_C_1462_T_THOWES> <L_PASTON_399> <A_THOMAS_HOWES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,272>

{ED:662._FROM_THOMAS_HOWES_1462,_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worshipfull sere and mayster , myn Mayster John
Paston , squier . </font> PASTON,II,272.399.10357

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshipfull sere and mayster , I recomaunde me to yow .
PASTON,II,272.399.10358

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And please yow that the chirche of Drayton is or shal be resynged in
hast in-to the Bysshoppys handes by Ser John Bullok , desyryng yow
hertly +tat ye lyke I may have the presentacion of the next avoydaunce
for a newew of myn callyd Ser Reynold Spendelove , whiche I trust yowre
maystership wole agree to make in yowre name and myn , as was last , &c
. PASTON,II,272.399.10359

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , please yow also +tat I have hadde diuerse comunicacions
with Worcestre sethe Crystmesse , PASTON,II,272.399.10360

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I fele by hym vtterly that he wole not appoynt in other fourme than
to have the londes of Feyrechildes and other londes in Drayton to the
summe of x marc of yow proprely , by-syde that +tat he desyreth of myn
mayster , whom God assoyle ; whiche mater I remytte to yowre noble
discrecion . PASTON,II,272.399.10361

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for aunswere of the bylles +tat I have , I have ben so sekelew
sethe Crystmasse that I myght not yette don hem ,
PASTON,II,272.399.10362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but I shal in alle hast , wherinne ye may excuse yow by me , if ye
please , tyl the next terme , at whiche tyme alle shal be aunswered ,
be Goddes grace , who preserue yow and send yow th'accompljshement of
yowre desyres , &c . PASTON,II,272.399.10363

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , sere , please yowre maystership hit was leten me wete in ryght
secrete wyse +tat a pyssaunce is redy to aryve in thre partyes of this
londe , by the meane of Kyng Herry and the Quene +tat was and by the
Dewk Somercete and others , of vj=xx= m=l= men ;
PASTON,II,272.399.10364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and here day , if wynde and weder hadde seruyd theym , shuld a ben here
sone vpon Candelmasse . PASTON,II,272.399.10365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At Trente <P_II,273> to London-wardes +tei shuld a ben by Candelmasse
or sone after , on parte of theym , and another part comyng from Walys
and the thredde from Yernessey and Garnesseye . Wher-fore it is weel
don ye enforme myn Lord Warwyk , +tat he may speke to the Kyng +tat
good provysion be hadde $in withstandyng there malicyous purpose and
evyl wylle , whiche God graunt we may overcome theym ;
PASTON,II,273.399.10366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so we shuld , I dought not , if we were alle oon .
PASTON,II,273.399.10367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
There ben many $medelers , PASTON,II,273.399.10368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and they ben best cheryshed whiche wole hurt moche if the cas come to ,
as God diffende , &c . PASTON,II,273.399.10369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWES:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_399:M4:1462:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
T. Howys PASTON,II,273.399.10370

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_400> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,273>

{ED:663._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1462,_24_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right singler maister J. Paston , squyer , in hast , &c .
</font> PASTON,II,273.400.10371

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
After due recomendacion , please it your maistership to wytte +tat I
spak with W. Yeluerton , &c. ; PASTON,II,273.400.10372

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as he tellyth me he cowde not yet haue +te leyser to comune with
his fader , PASTON,II,273.400.10373

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he shall breke +te matier on-to hym as though he hadde herd it as
weel of othir as of me . PASTON,II,273.400.10374

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as sone as he can vndirstond he shall lete me haue wyttyng at
Walsyngham sessions on Tuysday next comyng ; PASTON,II,273.400.10375

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I shall be there a-purpose for +te same , PASTON,II,273.400.10376

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ellis shuld I not come there thanne , &c . PASTON,II,273.400.10377

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as touchyng ony replegiare for Brightled , I vndirstond +ter is
noon als fer as I can aspye yet . PASTON,II,273.400.10378

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wymdam was at +tis sessions , PASTON,II,273.400.10379

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he hath don Felbrigge and dyuersez of his me {ED:n} endyted of
felonye , &c . PASTON,II,273.400.10380

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also he hath Portlond of Tutyngton in +te Castell for execucion of his
condempnacion , &c . PASTON,II,273.400.10381

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for ony othir tydyngges , I can noone , &c . PASTON,II,273.400.10382

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
In hast at Norwich +te Wednesseday next to-fore +t'Annunciacion , &c .
PASTON,II,273.400.10383

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pouere J. Gresham PASTON,II,273.400.10384

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Maister Yeluerton , Justice , seid in +te sessions +tat +te Kyng shulde
kepe his Estern at Bury , and from thens come into +tis cuntre` and se
suyche riottes as haue be in +tis cuntre` punysshed in suche fourme as
happely summe <P_II,274> shulde hange by +te nekke .
PASTON,II,274.400.10385

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_400:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he told what thank he had of +te Kyng at Cambrigge for cause he
declarid so well +te charge of extorcions doon by shirefes and o+ter
officers , &c. , for +te whiche declaracion +te Kyng tooke hym by +te
hand and seid he cowde hym grett thanke , and preyed hym so to do in
+tis cuntre` , &c . PASTON,II,274.400.10386

<Q_PAS_A_1462?_T_WLOMNOR> <L_PASTON_401> <A_WILLIAM_LOMNOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,275>

{ED:665._FROM_WILLIAM_LOMNOR_PERHAPS_1462,_11_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right worchipfull and reuerent and myn good mayster
Paston , squyere , be this taken . </font> PASTON,II,275.401.10387

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My ryght worchipfull mayster , I recomaunde me to yow , besechyng yow
to hold me excusyd +tat I awaytyd noon o+terwyse opon yow and my
mastras at my $comyng {TEXT:comyg} from Norwich ;
PASTON,II,275.401.10388

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$for yn good feyth I was soo seke +tat I hadde moche labour to come
home , PASTON,II,275.401.10389

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sythen that tyme I haue hadde my parte , &c .
PASTON,II,275.401.10390

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , sere , as for Berney , he begynnyth to falle ought of the popell
conceyte faster than euer he felle yn , for serteyn causez , &c. I
shalle telle yow yn haste . PASTON,II,275.401.10391

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But , sere , blyssyd be God , as for yow your loue yncresith amonge hem
, PASTON,II,275.401.10392

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I prey God it mot , PASTON,II,275.401.10393

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for and I herde the contrarie ye shuld sone haue wetyng .
PASTON,II,275.401.10394

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The vndershrefe dotht Mortoft fauour PASTON,II,275.401.10395

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lete hym goo yn Norwich as hym lyst , PASTON,II,275.401.10396

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and al the contre` abought me sey right evyll of hym for a mayntenour
of the Kynges enime` ; PASTON,II,275.401.10397

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for there ben an c purposid to ride to the Kyng for hym and he come
nere this contre` , PASTON,II,275.401.10398

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they sey thow he hadde neuer doo with his handes he hath seid a-now
to die . PASTON,II,275.401.10399

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue warend the vndershreffe +ter-of , &c . PASTON,II,275.401.10400

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sere , forther , I am yn beldyng of a pore hous .
PASTON,II,275.401.10401

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I truste God +tat ye shulle take your loggyng +teryn here-after whan ye
come to your lordshippis on tho partes , PASTON,II,275.401.10402

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I durste be soo bolde on your maystershep to aske of yow xij copill
of oken sparris . PASTON,II,275.401.10403

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold hertilly prey yow not to haue them but +ter they may be for-bore
beste , PASTON,II,275.401.10404

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and +tat is at a yard of yourz yn Saxthorp callid Barkerz .
PASTON,II,275.401.10405

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue eshe but noon oke , PASTON,II,275.401.10406

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but litell now comyth the fellyng +ter-of , &c. ;
PASTON,II,275.401.10407

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and me semyth ye myght take mony for wood +ter +tat stant and ceryth
and doth no good but harme , PASTON,II,275.401.10408

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with-yn fewe yeres ye $shall $not {TEXT:shulnot} wete where it is
become , &c . PASTON,II,275.401.10409

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also +ter be serteyn materz betwyn soom of your tenauntez and me .
PASTON,II,275.401.10410

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I abide your comyng PASTON,II,275.401.10411

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and doo not at the reuerence of yow . PASTON,II,275.401.10412

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They be $known $well {TEXT:knowelle} {COM:??} yn the contre` .
PASTON,II,275.401.10413

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And God haue yow yn his kepyng . PASTON,II,275.401.10414

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41?
LETTER:PASTON_401:M4:1462?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn on Palmesunday . Be your seruaunt W. Lomner
PASTON,II,275.401.10415

<Q_PAS_A_1462_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_402> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,276>

{ED:666._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1462,_BEFORE_14_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right reuerent and wurshipfull ser , my right honourable
Maystyr John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,276.402.10416

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull ser and my right honourable maistir , I recomaunde me
to you in my most humble wise . PASTON,II,276.402.10417

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And plese it youre good maistirshyp to wete that it is seyd here that
my Lord Wurcestre is lyk to be Tresorer , with whom I truste ye stonde
right wel in conseit , with whiche God contynwe . Wherfor I beseke
youre maistirshyp that if my seid lord haue the seid office that it
lyke you to desyre the nomynacion of on of the officez eythyr-8 of the
countroller ore serchorshyp of Jernemuth for a servaunt of yowrez ,
PASTON,II,276.402.10418

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shuld so gyde me in the office as I trust shuld be most profit to
my seyd lord . PASTON,II,276.402.10419

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if youre maistirshyp lyked to gete graunt thereof , that than it
plesyd you to lycence on of youre servauntez to take out the patent of
the seyd office , PASTON,II,276.402.10420

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if it cost v or vj or viij marke I shal trewly contente it ageyn ;
PASTON,II,276.402.10421

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yeerly as longe as I myght haue the officez , or ony of hem , I
shal geue my maister youre sone v marke toward an haukeney .
PASTON,II,276.402.10422

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It shuld be to me right a good mean to stondyn as well in the trust as
in the conseyt amongez marchauntez , with whom and with alle men I
calle my-self a servaunt of yourez , and soo wil do , if it plese you ,
which boldyth me the more to calle upon youre right wurshypful
maistyrshyp in this matere , where-in I beseke you to forgeue me my
boldnesse in thys behalue . PASTON,II,276.402.10423

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if I knew that my lord shuld haue the office in serteyn , than I
wold wayte upon youre good maystyrshyp there to opteyne the patent , if
it plesyd youre good maystirship to gete me the graunt , &c .
PASTON,II,276.402.10424

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nomore on-to you , my right honourable maistir , at thys tyme , but
Jesu I beseke sende you a good conclucyon in all youre materez and
graunt you euer youre hertez desyre . PASTON,II,276.402.10425

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_402:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre contynwal servaunt and bedeman John Russe PASTON,II,276.402.10426

<Q_PAS_A_1462_T_WBARKER> <L_PASTON_403> <A_WILLIAM_BARKER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,277>

{ED:667._FROM_WILLIAM_BARKER_1462,_4_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To myn ryght worshipfull and ryght singler good mayster , myn
Mayster John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,277.403.10427

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Myn ryght worshipfull mayster , I recomaunde me to yow in myn ryght
homble wyse . PASTON,II,277.403.10428

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And please yowr maystership +tat I have ben at Wetyng and there hald
the court and lete on Hokmonday , as hit hath ben of olde tyme
accostomed ; PASTON,II,277.403.10429

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the tenauntes have attorned and ben full gladde +tat myn lady shuld
reioyse hit and kepe here possession . PASTON,II,277.403.10430

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Prioure of Bromhill +tat was fermoure his terme is expired ,
PASTON,II,277.403.10431

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wol sewe to myn lady and hir councell to have a newe terme ;
PASTON,II,277.403.10432

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but lete myn lady be ware , PASTON,II,277.403.10433

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for as I here seyn he bydeth but a tyme +tat he myght gete a summe of
money to-geders of myn ladyes lyflode and to gon ther-with with a love
of his soiornyng as yette in Hokehold . PASTON,II,277.403.10434

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She hath ben dreven fro town to town for his sake .
PASTON,II,277.403.10435

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit is wele don ye aduertyse myn lady , if she be in that cas +tat she
hath gouernaunce of hir owen londes , that she do no thyng to that
lyflode ner non other in Norffolk with-ought advyse of theym that have
vysyted and overseen theym , PASTON,II,277.403.10436

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ther hath ben straunge rewle bothe-2 in woodsales and sales of
londes holde at wylle for fre rent , as ye shal knowe here-after .
PASTON,II,277.403.10437

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thoresby , a man that was generall attorney for myn Lord Oxenford +tat
was , told me that the Kynge hadde made Keche generall receyvoure by
prive`seale of alle londes that were the Erle of Oxenford and Dame
Elyzabet , ecept tho that Howard hadde entered and Lanham and an other
graunted to Wykes , and certeyn lyflode in Kent that was assigned to
the tresorer of howshold of the Kynges hows ; PASTON,II,277.403.10438

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and she shuld have be Keches hande v=c= mark , ij=c= and l mark to ben
payed at this Estern and the remulant at Mihelmasse .
PASTON,II,277.403.10439

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And of the remulant the Kyng shuld be answered .
PASTON,II,277.403.10440

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shal sone vnderstande how it is , PASTON,II,277.403.10441

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if hit be so hit {ED:is}_BEP but foly to laboure any ferther .
PASTON,II,277.403.10442

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold fayn knowe , PASTON,II,277.403.10443

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the courtes for the half-yere wold ben holde for nede .
PASTON,II,277.403.10444

<P_II,278>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Our Lord be with youre maystership PASTON,II,278.403.10445

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sende yow th'accomplyshement of youre noble desyres .
PASTON,II,278.403.10446

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wreten hastly at Norwyche the iiij=te= day of May .
PASTON,II,278.403.10447

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre seruaunt to his power W. B. PASTON,II,278.403.10448

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_403:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And whan ye comon with myn ryght worshipful lady , I beseche yow
remembre myn pore maters in whiche is greet concyens , &c .
PASTON,II,278.403.10449

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_JDAUBENEY> <L_PASTON_404> <A_JOHN_DAUBENEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,278>

{ED:668._FROM_JOHN_DAUBENEY_1462,_3_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my most reuerent and worchepfull Maister John Paston dwellyng
at Heylysdon be +tis delyueryd . </font> PASTON,II,278.404.10450

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Iesus PASTON,II,278.404.10451

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Most reuerent and worchepfull master , I recommaund me vnto your god
masterchep . PASTON,II,278.404.10452

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please you to have knowlage on +te Friday at after-noon next after
Seynt Peter there was at +te taueran in London old Debnam and yong
Debnam , Thomas Edmondys and I ; PASTON,II,278.404.10453

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther the seyd Thomas Edmondys fell jn communicacion with old Debnam
PASTON,II,278.404.10454

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seyd that my lord Tresorere had put hym to a gret charge for the
vetelyng of <font> Mary Talbot </font> , seyyng to old Debnam that he
hard sey +tat he had a c bullokys to selle , the wyche +te seyd
Edmondys wolle bey so +tat they may a-cord of +te price .
PASTON,II,278.404.10455

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than the seyd old Debnam answerd ageyn PASTON,II,278.404.10456

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seyd he wold , so +tat he myght have good payment or ellys +te seyd
Edmondys to be bound in abligacion to pay hym at suche dayys as they
myght a-cord . PASTON,II,278.404.10457

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
A-noon vp-on thys same langwage yong Debnam spake to hys fader , ' Ser
, I pray you +tat ye wolle take avisment of this mater tille to-morowe
, PASTON,II,278.404.10458

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I trost to your good faderod that ye wolle late me have a serteyn
of your bullokys for the vetelyng of the <font> Barge of Yermothe
</font> , and I shall fynd you sufficiant suerte` for +te payment
therof for Edmondys . PASTON,II,278.404.10459

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I wolle +tat ye knowe I have be ther and spoke with +te owner and with
+te maister of +te seyd <font> Barge </font> , PASTON,II,278.404.10460

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and they knowyn myn oppoyntment . ' PASTON,II,278.404.10461

<P_II,279>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than +te seyd Edmondys answerd to yong Debnam PASTON,II,279.404.10462

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and told hym that +te sety of Norwich and Yermothe hathe grauntyd and
send wrytyng to +te Kyng and to +te lordys that they wolle manne and
veteylle +te seyd <font> Barge </font> of here $owune costys fro +te
tyme of hyr goyng owt tyll hyr comyng home , PASTON,II,279.404.10463

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thus +te seyd Edmondys told hym that my lord Tresorer and all +te
lordys +tat be at London thynk they do ryght well her devyre and be
worthey moche thanke of +te Kyng . PASTON,II,279.404.10464

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
' Well ' , quod yong Debnam , ' I had in commaundment for to have +te
rewle of +te seyd <font> Barge </font> , PASTON,II,279.404.10465

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I wolle be at Yermothe ar thys day iiij dayys and man hyr and bryng
hyr dowune to +te Gylys of Hulle , PASTON,II,279.404.10466

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +tat ys my chype . ' PASTON,II,279.404.10467

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also he seyd more , PASTON,II,279.404.10468

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
with-owt +tat he myght have +te seyd <font> Barge </font> he wolle note
goo to see but hymself and hys xxiiij men ; PASTON,II,279.404.10469

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and thus , yf please your maisterchep , he departyd from +te taueran ;
PASTON,II,279.404.10470

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and at hys departyng he told the seyd Thomas Edmondys , ' Thys ys
Paston labore . ' PASTON,II,279.404.10471

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Than +te seyd Edmondys answerd hym a-geyn PASTON,II,279.404.10472

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seyd playnly he was to blame for to reporte so of youre masterchep
, PASTON,II,279.404.10473

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he knoythe veryly he seyd vn-trewly of you and of my master your
son bothe , PASTON,II,279.404.10474

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther-on he wold a take a hothe . PASTON,II,279.404.10475

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so , yf it please your good maisterchep , late +te cety of Norwich
and Yermothe have knowlage of hys gret crakyng and bost ,
PASTON,II,279.404.10476

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and let hym of hys purpose be +te autorite` +tat they have .
PASTON,II,279.404.10477

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , my master your son wolle have to hys jaketys murry and tany ,
PASTON,II,279.404.10478

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and that it please yow sum of my felachep may spek to on of +te drapers
for to $ordain $it {TEXT:ordeynyt} ageyns hys comyng hom ,
PASTON,II,279.404.10479

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I trowe it shall be thys day sevenyght ar he comithe home .
PASTON,II,279.404.10480

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , if please you , Skrowpe hathe sent to you to London be
Byngham for +te mony +tat ye knowe of . PASTON,II,279.404.10481

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+Git I spake not with hym , PASTON,II,279.404.10482

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I shall telle hym +tat I suppose ye shall be her in +te last end of
+te terme , PASTON,II,279.404.10483

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I shall send youre masterchep word what answere I have of hym .
PASTON,II,279.404.10484

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , if please , suche tydyngys as I here of I send you word .
PASTON,II,279.404.10485

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My lord of Warwek hathe be in Skotlon an take a castell of +te Skottys
; PASTON,II,279.404.10486

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and vpon thys ther came +te Quene of Skottys with other lordys of her
contre` , as ye shall here +te namys , jn basetry to my seyd lord of
Warwek , PASTON,II,279.404.10487

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and a trews is take be-twyx thys and Seynt Bertylmew Day in Auguste .
PASTON,II,279.404.10488

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Thes is +te last tydyngys +tat I knowe . PASTON,II,279.404.10489

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Nomore to youre god masterchep at +tis tyme , but Jesu have
{ED:you}_NP-OB1 in hys kepyng . PASTON,II,279.404.10490

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_404:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn on +te Satyrday next after Seynt Peter . By your pore seruaunt
J. Daubeney PASTON,II,279.404.10491

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_405> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,280>

{ED:669._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1462,_5_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght reuerunt and wurschipfull my Mastre John Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,280.405.10492

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith it you to witte that , where as ye wolde haue vndrestondyng and
knowleche of how moche malte ye haue at Castre , I can be in no
certeynte` verely PASTON,II,280.405.10493

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for the malters haue not moten all vp yette ; PASTON,II,280.405.10494

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but be estimacion ye haue of newe malte of this yere at Castre cccc
quarters and of olde malte of Castre and Mauteby viij=xx= comb , wherof
schall be spent be estimacion in your housold be Halloumesse xl quartre
. PASTON,II,280.405.10495

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so be lyclynes ye may delyuer at Castre of new cccc quartre and of
olde xl quartre ; PASTON,II,280.405.10496

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for the pris here , at Yermouthe j quartre euery busschell
streken in the combes is wurthe ij s. ij d. and no better now .
PASTON,II,280.405.10497

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
It whas wurthe ij s. vj d . PASTON,II,280.405.10498

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
But I here seye it is goode at London , wherfore me semethe it were
wele done to selle som nough at London , PASTON,II,280.405.10499

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for there I vndrestond is best sale . PASTON,II,280.405.10500

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I can thynke it schall falle here , PASTON,II,280.405.10501

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for the feldes are resonably fayre here in Flegge , and so vp to
Norwiche ; PASTON,II,280.405.10502

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
j quartre carying from Yermouthe to London woll coste you vj d. ,
PASTON,II,280.405.10503

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I vndrestond j quartre of Yermothe mette makethe at London but vij
busschell , &c . PASTON,II,280.405.10504

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Jesu $preserue {TEXT:peserue} you . PASTON,II,280.405.10505

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_405:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Norwiche the Monday next aftre Sen Peters Daye . Be your
seruaunt and bedman Richard Calle PASTON,II,280.405.10506

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_406> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,280>

{ED:670._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1462,_ABOUT_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my Maystre John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,280.406.10507

<P_II,281>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesith your maistreschip to wit that I whas at Scole and spake with
Alblastre , John Sadeler , and with other good yomen of the contre` to
$vndrestand how they were gided for the vetelyng of the <font> Barge of
Yermouth </font> . PASTON,II,281.406.10508

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I vndrestande be them that there hundred haue payed ;
PASTON,II,281.406.10509

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
neuertheles it is but litell . PASTON,II,281.406.10510

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther was gatherd in that hundred xviij s. and certein corn , and som
other hundred vj marc. and corne , PASTON,II,281.406.10511

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so they haue payed in all the hundredes and townys here a-boute ,
that is to sey Est Flegge and West Flegge and vp to Blofeld , Tunsted ,
and vp to Stalom , I vndrestand , be the comiscion that Debenham hath .
PASTON,II,281.406.10512

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
It is more large thanne Maistre John is , as ye schall vndrestand ,
wherof I send you a copy , weche causeth me that I labour no ferther
therin . PASTON,II,281.406.10513

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Notwithstandyng your maistreschip schal haue knowleche what every
hundred geve , and Yermoth bothe . PASTON,II,281.406.10514

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Wynterton the morwe aftre I departed from your maistreschip .
PASTON,II,281.406.10515

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_406:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your poore bedman Richard Calle PASTON,II,281.406.10516

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_407> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,281>

{ED:671._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_NOT_BEFORE_1462,_15_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right <em> wurshypfull and </em> my right honourabyl
$Maystyr John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,281.407.10517

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull ser and my right honourabill maistir , I recomaund me
to you jn my most humble wise . PASTON,II,281.407.10518

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And please youre <em> maistirship ... </em> is on Thomas Chapman , an
evyl disposyd man al-wey ayens you , as I haue jnformyd youre
maistirship many tymes , and <em> ... </em> labouryd to my lord
<P_II,282> Tresorere to subplante me , and brought down wryghting from
the Kyng and my lord Tresorere ; PASTON,II,282.407.10519

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but ore hise wryting cam Wydwell fond the meanys , be the supportacion
of Maistir Feen , that we had a discharge fore hym out of the Chauncery
. Wherfore the seyd Chapman purposyth to be at London in all haste and
to auertise the Kyng and my lord Tresorere ageyn me to the grettest
hurt he can jmagyne . Wherfore I beseke youre maystirship , consedryng
is evyl disposecion to yow and also the rathere at my pore jnstaunce ,
that ye lyke that my lord Tresorere myght vndyrstonde that the seyd
Chapman is of no reputacion , but evyl disposyd to brybory of
straungerys and be coloure of hise office of supervisor of the serche
shal gretly hurte the port . PASTON,II,282.407.10520

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The seyd Chapman supportorys is Blakeney , clerk of the sygnet , and
Auerey Cornburght , yoman of the Kyngys chaumbre .
PASTON,II,282.407.10521

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath here of Auereyes xxiiij tune wyn , wherof at the long wey he
shal make the seyd Auerey a lewd rekenyng . PASTON,II,282.407.10522

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The seyd Chapman louyth not you nore no man to yow wardys , &c .
PASTON,II,282.407.10523

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , I prey God $bryng you onys to regne amongys youre cuntre`-men in
love , and to be dred . PASTON,II,282.407.10524

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The lengere ye contynwe there the more hurt growyth to you .
PASTON,II,282.407.10525

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Men sey ye will neythere-1 folwe the auyse of youre owyn kynred nore of
youre counsell , but $oonly youre owyn wylfullnesse , whiche but grace
be shal be youre distrucion . PASTON,II,282.407.10526

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is my part to enfourme youre $maistirshyp as the comown voyse is .
PASTON,II,282.407.10527

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God betir it PASTON,II,282.407.10528

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and graunt yow onys hertys ease , PASTON,II,282.407.10529

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore it is half a deth to me to here the generall voyse of the pepyll ,
whiche dayli encreasyth , &c . PASTON,II,282.407.10530

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , I beseke youre maistirshyp to remembre my maystresse fore the
lytil syluir whiche fore serteyn thyngys delyuerid to youre vse is dewe
to me . PASTON,II,282.407.10531

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue nede of it now . PASTON,II,282.407.10532

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I haue bought salt and othere thyngys whiche hathe brought me out of
myche syluir . PASTON,II,282.407.10533

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold trust , and I nedyd to borwe xx li. , youre $maistirshyp wold
ease me fore a tyme , PASTON,II,282.407.10534

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thys that I desyre is myn owyn dute` . PASTON,II,282.407.10535

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Jesu graunt yow euer yowre hertys desyre to $yowre wurshyp and
profyt , PASTON,II,282.407.10536

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and preserue yow , my right honourabyll maistir , from all aduersyte` .
PASTON,II,282.407.10537

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Jernemuthe the xv day of Julij . PASTON,II,282.407.10538

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre seruaunt and bedman John Russe PASTON,II,282.407.10539

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Here is a kervyl of Cane in Normandy PASTON,II,282.407.10540

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he takyth Duchemen PASTON,II,282.407.10541

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_407:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and raunsummyth hem grevously . PASTON,II,282.407.10542

<Q_PAS_C_1460S_T_JMOWBRJR> <L_PASTON_408> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,283>

{ED:672._JOHN_MOWBRAY,_FOURTH_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_1462-3,_31_AUGUST}_C ODE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure right trusty and entierly welbelouid seruaunt John
Paston th'elder . </font> PASTON,II,283.408.10543

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
The Duc of Norffolk PASTON,II,283.408.10544

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and entierly welbelouid seruaunt , we grete you hertily
well , PASTON,II,283.408.10545

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
and specially prayng you that ye will be with vs at Framlyngham on
Sonday next comyng , that we may comon with you there and haue youre
sadde advise in suche matiers as concernyth gretly to oure weel ,
wheche shall be mynestred vnto you at youre comyng ;
PASTON,II,283.408.10546

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
prayng you that ye fayle not herof , as our speciall trust is in you .
PASTON,II,283.408.10547

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And Our Lord preserue you in his keping . PASTON,II,283.408.10548

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Written at Framlyngham the xxxj day of August . PASTON,II,283.408.10549

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_408:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Norffolk PASTON,II,283.408.10550

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_409> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,283>

{ED:673._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1462,_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my rigth good maister John Paston the oldest , beyng at
Heylesdon be-syde Norwiche , in hast . </font> PASTON,II,283.409.10551

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please your maisterchip wete that Cristofer Hanson is ded and beryed ;
PASTON,II,283.409.10552

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for executor or testement , he mad non . PASTON,II,283.409.10553

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for +te tenauntes , <P_II,284> Mydsomer quarter is owyng and for
Esterne quarter ful lytyll owyng or non en effect ;
PASTON,II,284.409.10554

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but as for al +tat was owyng +te day of his deth , I schall make a
bylle of ther names and +te summa and send it you ;
PASTON,II,284.409.10555

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also I schall gadre as moche as I may . PASTON,II,284.409.10556

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , Maister Scrop hath don sought you ofte tymes , and sent
you a lettre and hertely prayed me to send it you , and that ye wold
send an answer ther-of . PASTON,II,284.409.10557

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I wote wel after suche tyme as he supposeth +te lettre schuld come
to you he wol neuer fayle day to send to me to here of an answer ;
PASTON,II,284.409.10558

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he told me Maister Byngham said to hym that he schuld not fayle of
his mony at his comyng to London , wheruppon he told me feythfully that
in trust of your payment he promysed o+ter men to qwhom he is endette
to lyke dayes , and taryeth in London and schall do tyl he haue answer
fro you . PASTON,II,284.409.10559

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He wend that Cristofer had wretyn to you for this mater long a-goo .
Wherfor , if it please you ser , that ye wol wryte sum goodly answer to
hym +tat I may be avoyde of his often sendyng , PASTON,II,284.409.10560

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I se wel he hath hast after it . PASTON,II,284.409.10561

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for to make ony schyft of your tenauntes here , I can not see
ony redy payment ; PASTON,II,284.409.10562

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but what I can gadre I shall leve it with Wesenham , except suche
costes as I haue leyd ougth +tis terme . PASTON,II,284.409.10563

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , ser , Scrop prayed me to wryte to you for certeyn evydences of a
no+ter mannys whiche he toke you to ouer-see and to wryte ougth copyes
of them , and that ye wold send hem to hym if ye had don with hem , or
ell of an answer . PASTON,II,284.409.10564

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for tydynges , the Erles of Warrewyk , of Essexe , Lord Wenlok ,
Bysshop of Dereham , and o+ter go in-to Scotlond of jnbassat .
PASTON,II,284.409.10565

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for +te sege of Kaleys , we here no more ther-of , blyssed be
God , ho haue you in his kepyng . PASTON,II,284.409.10566

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for Cristofers papers +tat longeth to your tenauntes , I haue
goten of William Worceter ; PASTON,II,284.409.10567

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as for al +te remnaunt of Cristofer good , William Worceter hath
+te reule as hym semeth most convenient . PASTON,II,284.409.10568

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_409:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Thomas Playter PASTON,II,284.409.10569

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_410> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,284>

{ED:674._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1462,_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my Maister John Paston at Heylesdon . </font>
PASTON,II,284.410.10570

<P_II,285>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , plese you wete of o+ter tytynges . PASTON,II,285.410.10571

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
These lordes in your o+ter letter , with Lord Hastynges and o+ter , ben
to Karlyle to resseyue in +te Qwen of Scottes ; PASTON,II,285.410.10572

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and vppon this appoyntement Erle Duglas is comaunded to com thens ,
PASTON,II,285.410.10573

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and as a sorwefull and a sore rebuked man lyth in +te Abbey of Seynt
Albons , PASTON,II,285.410.10574

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and by +te said appoyntement schall not be reputed nor taken but as an
Englyssheman , PASTON,II,285.410.10575

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if he com in the daunger of Scottes they to sle hym .
PASTON,II,285.410.10576

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Kyng Herry and his aderentes in Scotlond schall be delyuered ;
PASTON,II,285.410.10577

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Lord Dakres of +te Northe is wonne and yolden ,
PASTON,II,285.410.10578

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +te said lord , Ser Richard Tunstall , and on Byllyngham in +te
said castell ben taken and heded . PASTON,II,285.410.10579

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , +te Qwen and Prince ben in Fraunce , PASTON,II,285.410.10580

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ha mad moche weyes and gret peple to com to Scotlond
PASTON,II,285.410.10581

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther trust to haue socour , and thens to com in-to Inglond .
PASTON,II,285.410.10582

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
What schall falle I can not sey , PASTON,II,285.410.10583

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I herd +tat these appoyntementes were take by +te yong lordes of
Scotlond but not by +te old . PASTON,II,285.410.10584

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your Plaiter PASTON,II,285.410.10585

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_410:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Cristofer dyed on +te Saterday nexst by-for Seynt Margret A=o= E ij=do=
. PASTON,II,285.410.10586

<Q_PAS_A_1462_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_411> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,285>

{ED:675._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1462,_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right honourabil and wurshypfull maistre , my Maister
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,285.411.10587

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please it youre wurshipfull maistyrshyp to wete that it is informyd me
thys day secretly that there is dyrectyd out a comyssyon to Maystyr
Yelwyrton and Maistyr Jenney , which shal tomorwyn syttyn be vertu of
the same at Seynt Oloffez . PASTON,II,285.411.10588

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the substaunce of jentilmen and yemen of Lodynglond be assygnid to
be afore the seyd commesyonerez , PASTON,II,285.411.10589

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and it is supposyd it is fore my maisterez londez ;
PASTON,II,285.411.10590

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore as the seyd persone informyd me the seyd <P_II,286> commesyonerez
haue ben at Cotton and there entryd and holdyn a court .
PASTON,II,286.411.10591

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I can not informe youre maystyrshyp that it is thus in serteyn ,
PASTON,II,286.411.10592

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but thus it was told me and desyrid me to kepe it secret ;
PASTON,II,286.411.10593

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but be-cause I conseyue it is ageyn youre maistyrshyp it is my part to
geue you relacion there-of . PASTON,II,286.411.10594

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I sende you a lettere which cometh from Wurcestyr to my maistyr youre
brothyr . PASTON,II,286.411.10595

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wold ye undyrstod the intente of it , PASTON,II,286.411.10596

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for as fore Wurcester I knowe well he is not good .
PASTON,II,286.411.10597

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sum men ar besy to make werre , for the absentyng of my maistyr ;
PASTON,II,286.411.10598

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
the parson comyth not of hyse owyn mocyon , PASTON,II,286.411.10599

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but I wold youre maistyrshyp knewe be whom jt is mevyd .
PASTON,II,286.411.10600

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I herd you neuer calle hym falce pryst , be my trouth , nore othyr
language that is rehersyd hym ; PASTON,II,286.411.10601

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but God sende a good acord , PASTON,II,286.411.10602

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for of varyaunce cometh gret hurt oftyn tyme . PASTON,II,286.411.10603

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I beseke Jesu sende youre maistyrshyp youre hertez desyre and
amende hem that wold the contrary . PASTON,II,286.411.10604

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , yestyreuyn a man cam from London PASTON,II,286.411.10605

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyth the Kyng cam to London on Satyrday and there dede make a
proclamacion that all men that were be-twyx lx and xvj shuld be rydy to
wayte upon hym whan so euer they were callyd ; PASTON,II,286.411.10606

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and it is seyd that my lord Warwyk had sent to the Kyng and informyd
hyse Hyghnesse that the lord Summyrset had wretyn to hym to come to
grace . PASTON,II,286.411.10607

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But of the fleet of shyppis there is no tydingez in serteyn at London
on Monday last past . PASTON,II,286.411.10608

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_411:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre bedman and seruaunt John Russe PASTON,II,286.411.10609

<Q_PAS_A_1462_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_412> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,286>

{ED:676._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1462,_SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right honourabyl and wurshypfull maistir , my Maistir John
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,286.412.10610

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Plese youre wurshypfull maistirship to wete , here is a ship of Hith
wiche seith that John Cole cam from the west cost on Wednysday last
past , PASTON,II,286.412.10611

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he seyth that the fleet of shyppis of this londe met with lx seile
of Spanyardys , Brettonys , and Frenshemen , and there tok of hem l ,
wherof xij shyppys were as gret as the <font> Grace de Dewe </font> ;
PASTON,II,286.412.10612

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there is slayn on thys partyez the Lordys Clynton and Dakyr and
many jentilmen , Ince and othyr , the <P_II,287> noumbre of iiij m=l= .
PASTON,II,287.412.10613

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the seyd Spanyardys were purposyd with marchaundise in-to Flaundrez
. PASTON,II,287.412.10614

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My lordys of Warwykys shyp , the <font> Mary Grace </font> , and the
<font> Trenyte` </font> hadde the grettest hurt ,
PASTON,II,287.412.10615

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore they were formest . PASTON,II,287.412.10616

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
God send grace thys be trewe . PASTON,II,287.412.10617

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
On Thursday last past at London was no tydingys in serteyn where the
flet was , nore what they had doon ; PASTON,II,287.412.10618

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and therfore I fere the tydingys the more . PASTON,II,287.412.10619

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , as fore tydingys at London , there were arestyd be the
Tresorer xl seylis lyeng in Temse , wherof many smale shyppis ;
PASTON,II,287.412.10620

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and it is seyd it is to carye men to Caleyse in all haste fore feere of
the Kyng of Fraunce for a sege PASTON,II,287.412.10621

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and it was told me secretly there were cc in Caleyse sworn contrary to
the Kyngys well for defaute of there wagys , and that Qwen Marget was
redy at Boleyn with myche syluir to paye the soudyerys in cas they wold
geue here entresse . PASTON,II,287.412.10622

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Many men be gretly aferd of thys matere , &c . PASTON,II,287.412.10623

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Tresorer hath mych to do fore thys cause . PASTON,II,287.412.10624

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , as fore tydingys out of Irelond , there were many men at
London at the feyre of the contre`z next them of Irelond ,
PASTON,II,287.412.10625

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and they sey thys iij wykys cam there neythyr shyp nore boot out of
Irelond to brynge no tydingys , PASTON,II,287.412.10626

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so it semyth there is myche to doo there be the Erle of Penbrook .
PASTON,II,287.412.10627

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And it is seyd that the Kyng shuld be at London as on Satyrday ore
Sonday last past , PASTON,II,287.412.10628

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and men deme that he wold to Caleyse hym-self , PASTON,II,287.412.10629

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore the soudyorys are so wyld there that they wyll not lette in ony
man but the Kynge ore my Lorde Warwyk . PASTON,II,287.412.10630

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Othyr tydyngys the {ED:re} were come to London ,
PASTON,II,287.412.10631

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but they were not oplyshyd ; PASTON,II,287.412.10632

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but John Wellys shal abyde a day the lengere to knowe what they are .
PASTON,II,287.412.10633

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Nomore on-to you , my right honourable maistir , at thys tyme , but
Jesu send yow youre hertys desyre and amende hem that wold the
$contrary {TEXT:cotrary} . PASTON,II,287.412.10634

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:41
LETTER:PASTON_412:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre bedman and $contynwal {TEXT:contywal} servaunt John Russe
PASTON,II,287.412.10635

<Q_PAS_A_1463_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_413> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,287>

{ED:677._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1463,_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To his rigth good maister John Paston , squyer , at +te Tempyll
in hast . </font> PASTON,II,287.413.10636

<P_II,288>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please your maisterchip wete that as for my lord of Norwich cosyn deth
, Thomas Gurnay man hath confessed that he slewe hym by comaundement of
his maister , and confessed ouer that +te same dager he slew hym wyth
he kest it in a sege , whiche is founden and taken vp al to-bowyd ,
PASTON,II,288.413.10637

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he cowde not breke it ; PASTON,II,288.413.10638

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and in preson is bothe he and his maister . PASTON,II,288.413.10639

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also , on Thursday next after Cristemasse was a man slayn , by whom no
man woot ; PASTON,II,288.413.10640

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
nor what he is that was slayn no man knowe , his face is so mangled .
PASTON,II,288.413.10641

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also , tho that were werst avysed at +te last shire were men of Cossey
and Ryngelond ; PASTON,II,288.413.10642

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ther namys ben knowen , &c . PASTON,II,288.413.10643

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please you to haue me excused that I am so ny and come not to you ,
PASTON,II,288.413.10644

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for my erand is sum what hasty to my lord Chaunceler fro my lord of
Norwyche , PASTON,II,288.413.10645

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it were gretely ougth of +te wey to com to London .
PASTON,II,288.413.10646

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my maistres your moder and my maistres your wyf , &c. , desyre
to haue wrytyng or word fro you of your helth and welfare and your
o+ter besynes , and especiall wheder ye tarye be-cause of ony
comaundement , &c. , or ell for the sped of your maters .
PASTON,II,288.413.10647

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , wheder Maister William tarye for ony causes of your , or ell for
his plesour or ony o+ter his besynesse . PASTON,II,288.413.10648

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My maistres your moder remembreth his gret cost in kepyng of his hors
so long . PASTON,II,288.413.10649

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , they desyre to knowe a-bowte what tyme ye purpose you to be at
hom , or at the lest wey whan Maister William woll be at hom ,
PASTON,II,288.413.10650

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Byllyngford thynketh long after hym , &c . PASTON,II,288.413.10651

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my maistres your wyf and Richard Calle desyreth to haue an
answer of Richard Calle letter touchyng the letyng of Boyton ,
PASTON,II,288.413.10652

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Alblaster calleth sore vppon an answer fro you , prayng you to
spede an answer . PASTON,II,288.413.10653

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my Maistres Clere besecheth you to have word fro you .
PASTON,II,288.413.10654

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my Maistres Clere besecheth you that syth here bro+ter , &c. ,
Edmund Clere is ougth of +te bylle of atteyndre that sche mygth haue a
wrytyng of dyscharge fro the Kyng , to schewe it to suche personez as
wold , be ony old comaundement or ell by ony newe commandement gader vp
the ferme from hens forth as Croppell ded , PASTON,II,288.413.10655

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for sche dredeth lesse than suche wold com here-after and lette her to
take pesebly the profytez . PASTON,II,288.413.10656

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sche wold I schuld haue don this erand in lyke wyse to Maister William
and Hewe Fen if I had spoken wyth hem , PASTON,II,288.413.10657

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I beseche you that on of your men may lete Hew Fen vnderstand that
he had wrytyng fro me on my maistres byhalfe to do +te erand to hym ,
&c . PASTON,II,288.413.10658

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I be-seche you that these articles be-fore may be answered in
your wrytyng , if ony make you to me , PASTON,II,288.413.10659

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thou ye touche euery article but a lytyll , be-cause of labourous
wrytyng , yet schall I be +tat lytyll conseyve , I hope , to satisfye
hem that desyre the answere . PASTON,II,288.413.10660

<P_II,289>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , if ye thynk I tary lenger than ye wold , plese you to send me
word PASTON,II,289.413.10661

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I schall higth me to you after an answer had to my lord of my erand
at this tyme , al excuses and taryans leyd apart ,
PASTON,II,289.413.10662

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I am of tho +tat thynk long tyll I here say , &c .
PASTON,II,289.413.10663

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ser Thomas Howys hath ben wyth Yeluerton syth his comyng hom ij ;
PASTON,II,289.413.10664

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
what they haue talked I can not sey . PASTON,II,289.413.10665

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I be-seche you +tat +te brynger here-of may bryng me sum wrytyng of al
this , ou+ter to my maistres your wif or to my maistres your moder , &c
. PASTON,II,289.413.10666

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_413:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thomas Playter PASTON,II,289.413.10667

<Q_PAS_A_1463_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_414> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,289>

{ED:678._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1463,_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght reuerent maystre , my Maystre John Paston , in the
Ynner Temple at London . </font> PASTON,II,289.414.10668

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith your goode maystrechip to witte that there comen doune to the
vndrescheryff of Norwiche a writte to a-tache Maistre John P. the
yongere , wherof I sende you a copy closed herin , but they woll not
a-reeste hym within Norwich ; PASTON,II,289.414.10669

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I vndrestande ther is comen an other writte to the vndrescheryff of
Norffolk bothe for hym and me and for all thoo that ben jndyghted .
Wherfore I purpose me to ride to Hoonyng to the scheryff thys day to
vndrestande how he is disposed and to desire hym to shewe favour to
your pore tenauntes ; PASTON,II,289.414.10670

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as I feele hym disposed I schall sende your maystreschip answer .
PASTON,II,289.414.10671

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for tidynges here in this contre` , we haue noon but that ther
be many Frenchemen vpon the see and do moche answer vpon the coostes .
PASTON,II,289.414.10672

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Maistre Yeluerton knewe of the comyng vp of the teste within ij dayes
after they were goon , &c . PASTON,II,289.414.10673

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My ryght reuerent and wurschipful maystre , the Blissed Trinite`
precerue and kepe and forther you in all your maters .
PASTON,II,289.414.10674

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ser William Wyllugby whas at Risyng Castell , PASTON,II,289.414.10675

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and yesterday he come hom a-yeine . PASTON,II,289.414.10676

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
On Tentale hathe entred in-to parte of Felbregge lyvelod , and a corte
holden and the tenauntes returned . PASTON,II,289.414.10677

<P_II,290>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , $as $for {TEXT:asfor} the cort that Debenam schuld holde at
Calcot , we here not of it . PASTON,II,290.414.10678

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_414:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pore seruaunt and bedman R. C. PASTON,II,290.414.10679

<Q_PAS_A_1463_FS_TPLAYTER> <L_PASTON_415> <A_THOMAS_PLAYTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,290>

{ED:679._FROM_THOMAS_PLAYTER_1463,_EARLY_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To mygth rigth good and speciall maister John Paston dwellyng at
Heylesdon be-syde Norwich . </font> PASTON,II,290.415.10680

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Rigth reuerent , &c. Please your maisterchip wete +tat I resseyved your
letter which ye sent by Crome , PASTON,II,290.415.10681

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for +te examinacion of , &c. , that I wrot to you of in my
former letter to be taken on +te Munday or on Tewysday , &c. , this was
+te cause . PASTON,II,290.415.10682

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye yaf me jnformacion at my last departyng <P_II,291> fro you that the
murdre was don vppon +te day nexst after Seynt Petre .
PASTON,II,291.415.10683

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And for doute lesse ye had be ougth at +te comyng of my said lettre ,
and for dowte +tat I supposed that my maistres your wyf had not be
remembred of +te day , it caused me accordyng to your informacion to
wryte +te vttermest day for here remembrans . PASTON,II,291.415.10684

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse , if ye certefie that ye toke +te examinacion wyth-jn +te
yere and day , and sette +te day in certayn , your certificat is
sufficiant in lawe PASTON,II,291.415.10685

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and schall bynd ony of +te parties to sey +te contrary .
PASTON,II,291.415.10686

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And also +te writte is +tat ye schuld certefie sine dilacione , and no
day expresly youen you whan to certefie it , wherfor ye may kepe
vn-certefiet tyl +te nexst terme ; PASTON,II,291.415.10687

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so do , ser , PASTON,II,291.415.10688

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it schall do no hurt . PASTON,II,291.415.10689

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But if ony questions or jangelyng schuld be mad when +te examinacion
was , let a sufficiant day wyth-jnne +te yer be noysed ,
PASTON,II,291.415.10690

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if +te teste be to schort we schal fynd +te mene it schal be
amendyd by hym +tat wrot it ; PASTON,II,291.415.10691

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for after +te jnformacion that I had of Crome +te Sunday was +te
vttermest day , PASTON,II,291.415.10692

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and therfor it was happy +tat sche was examined thenne .
PASTON,II,291.415.10693

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And where +tat ye wold I schuld take +te advise of Maister Markham ,
&c. , if al thyng were laufull , and ell not , PASTON,II,291.415.10694

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
it is full hard to my-self to determine +te certaynte` of euery
circumstans of +te mater , PASTON,II,291.415.10695

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it is not gretely to be communed of wyth o+ter nor to commune of
casez lyke , PASTON,II,291.415.10696

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for whan +te mater schuld come in reuelysshon it wold cause prevy
titlers and flaterers ougth of suche questions to ymagyn and contryve
maters of distourbans . Wherfor vppon +te certeynte` of myn
determinacion I brak +te $mater to Maister Markham , which called to
hym Master Byngham , PASTON,II,291.415.10697

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so thei ij meved Y. ; PASTON,II,291.415.10698

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and after +tat mocion he kept not his owyn councell ,
PASTON,II,291.415.10699

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but brak to euery man of it . PASTON,II,291.415.10700

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Hou be it he was sore mevyd wyth it , I wote it well , and glad to take
avyse and comfort of o+ter personez than of Maisters Markham and
Byngham . PASTON,II,291.415.10701

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Al circumstans were to long to wryte , PASTON,II,291.415.10702

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I hope to speke wyth you be tymes j-nougth or ye schall nede to
certefye , &c . PASTON,II,291.415.10703

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , in conclucion Maisters Markham and Byngham thynk it
sufficiant j-nougth to take his promys and his othe wyth-ougth
obligacion that he schall make amendes if profe here-after can be mad
vppon hym , &c . PASTON,II,291.415.10704

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And to +tis Maister Markham prayed you to agre` by +te same token ye
meved hym to sette an ende be-twyx you and my maisters your brethern .
PASTON,II,291.415.10705

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuerthelesse if ye thynk +tis wey not sufficiant ye may lete sum o+ter
handele +te mater at hom to hym if +tat ye hope to gete good pref in
+te mater , PASTON,II,291.415.10706

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for wyth-ougth evydent proffe +te mater schall be but noysefull to you
and <P_II,292> cause men to thynk +tat it growyth of your ille wylle to
hym ward , &c. , PASTON,II,292.415.10707

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he noyseth and seyth be-cause of ille wyll ye haue caused a mad
woman to take apell a-yens hym . PASTON,II,292.415.10708

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , as for Leukenore , he is not at London ;
PASTON,II,292.415.10709

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but paraventure I schal make hym to be meved in +te mater here-after .
PASTON,II,292.415.10710

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I dede your erand to my maister your son .
PASTON,II,292.415.10711

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for John Say , he recomendyth hym to you bothe for your
billes and for your labour , PASTON,II,292.415.10712

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and prayeth you if ony land that lyth for +te Priour ease mygth be
aspyed that ye wold help to gete it hym and send hym word ;
PASTON,II,292.415.10713

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for +te morteysyng he <em> ... </em> and at his cost end labour
. PASTON,II,292.415.10714

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for tydynges , the Kyng and the counsell is at Northampton
PASTON,II,292.415.10715

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the convocacion schall be <em> ... </em> after Relyk Sunday .
PASTON,II,292.415.10716

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And ther be ij marchauntes come fro Caleys , PASTON,II,292.415.10717

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and they mygth no leve haue to con <em> ... </em> s schuld bere the
Kyng certeyn lettres and juste tytynges that sege is comyng to Caleys .
PASTON,II,292.415.10718

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And trew <em> ... </em> re Lady Day , as I herd sey .
PASTON,II,292.415.10719

AUTHOR:THOMAS_PLAYTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:42
LETTER:PASTON_415:M4:1463:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , it is talked that Duchemen and Englysshemen ben at contraversie
wyth-jn <em> ... </em> PASTON,II,292.415.10720

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_416> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,294>

{ED:681._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_1464,_26_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

<font>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
$To my right worshipfull $master John Paston at $Castre in Norffolk .
</font> PASTON,II,294.416.10721

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
After due recomendacion hadde , please it your maistership to wytte
that +tis day the plee by-twene Ogan and yow was sore argued in +te
Kyngges Benche by your counsell in lettyng of +te iugement ,
PASTON,II,294.416.10722

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and to-morwe haue they day to argue ageyn ; PASTON,II,294.416.10723

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and for lak of copies of +tat plee I am fayn to sewe for newe copies
+terof for your counsell . PASTON,II,294.416.10724

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your counsell hopeth to do weel +terin . PASTON,II,294.416.10725

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
These argued for yow : Maisteres Grenefeld , Catesby , Pygot ,
Notyngham , and Starky , &c . PASTON,II,294.416.10726

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And yesterday was the matier bytwene Debenham and yow called by Geney
for an answer . PASTON,II,294.416.10727

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue spoken on-to Catesby and delyuered hym your enformacion , and to
be aduysed and to commune wyth Maister Grenefeld , &c .
PASTON,II,294.416.10728

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The two Chefe Juges and Maister Lyttelton arn awaytyng up-on the Kyng ,
PASTON,II,294.416.10729

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for +te Kyng is purposed in-to Gloucestreshire , &c .
PASTON,II,294.416.10730

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is seid +tat <P_II,295> my lord Chaunceller shall be here on
Saterday or on Moneday next comyng , as +te maisteres of the Chauncerye
seyn . PASTON,II,295.416.10731

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I write to yow this bycause ye seid to me if ye wyst +tat my lord
Chaunceller shuld be here , +tanne wolde ye come hidder , and ell wolde
ye not come here +tis terme . PASTON,II,295.416.10732

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As touchyng Rysyng , he hath his day Octavas Purificacionis ,
PASTON,II,295.416.10733

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I haue +tat weye +tat his presence is recordet for al this terme .
PASTON,II,295.416.10734

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Maister Clement tellyth me +tat Wysseter hath put excepcion on-to your
wyttenesseres , &c . PASTON,II,295.416.10735

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is seid +tat the Kyng wole ride Sussexe , Kent , Essexe , Suffolk ,
and Norffolk , and so to the parlement , PASTON,II,295.416.10736

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he hath sent for alle his feed men to awayte up-on hym in +teir
best aray in al hast . PASTON,II,295.416.10737

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London the Thursday in +te morwe after Seynt Poule .
PASTON,II,295.416.10738

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_416:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your own pouere man James Gresham PASTON,II,295.416.10739

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_417> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,296>

{ED:683._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1464,_27_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my mooste reuerent and wurschipfull mastre , my Mastre John
Paston , be this delyuerd . </font> PASTON,II,296.417.10740

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your goode mastreschip to vnderstande +tat I haue receyued a
byll of John Boteler weche speketh of your heygh at Heylesdon and of
your <P_II,297> barly in other places , but I vndrestand not what ye
wold I schulde do therin . PASTON,II,297.417.10741

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Nevertheles I schal do make it redy , PASTON,II,297.417.10742

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for your heygh I schall telle you whan I come home .
PASTON,II,297.417.10743

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for money , at Heylesdon I can non gete ,
PASTON,II,297.417.10744

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and at Sueynesthorp I haue take iiij marc . PASTON,II,297.417.10745

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for tidynges , the sescions schal be at Thetford on Wednesday
next comyng , where I vndrestande Mastre Berney wol be wyth moche
people , be-cauce ther is come to hym a prevy seale that he schuld be
wyth the Kyng wyth-in vj dayes that the prevy seale whas delyuerd hym ,
weche he can not doo for the vj day is to-morwe .
PASTON,II,297.417.10746

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ther is on comen to Felbrigge , to William Yeluerton an other , and to
Robert Rough an other , PASTON,II,297.417.10747

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and non of them woll goo to the Kyng ; PASTON,II,297.417.10748

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the vndre-scherif tolde me that ther is comen a comyscion doun to
hes mastre that in cas they come not vp to the Kyng be ther prevy
seales that than he rere the contre` and take hem and bryng hem to the
Kyng where so euer he be . PASTON,II,297.417.10749

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Jamys Gresham tellethe me the same , PASTON,II,297.417.10750

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for tidynges from London we here non but +tat John Colman
telleth me that if Berney or Robert Rough come vp they are like to die
. PASTON,II,297.417.10751

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Ter be come to London enbacetours from the Duke of Burgon , weche
cauced the Kyng to spede hym the rather to London .
PASTON,II,297.417.10752

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for any newe assices at Thetford , ther is non but that hathe
hanged this v yere , as the scherif tellethe me .
PASTON,II,297.417.10753

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I whas purposed to be at home this nyght till I had your bille , weche
cauceth me to ride ouer to Drayton for diuerce thynges , &c .
PASTON,II,297.417.10754

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Jesu precerue you . PASTON,II,297.417.10755

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Norwiche the ij Munday of Clene Lente .
PASTON,II,297.417.10756

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_417:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pore beedeman and $seruaunt {TEXT:seruunt} Richard Calle
PASTON,II,297.417.10757

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FS_JPAMPYNG> <L_PASTON_418> <A_JOHN_PAMPYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,297>

{ED:684._FROM_JOHN_PAMPYNG_1464,_29_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull master John Paston the older , squire .
</font> PASTON,II,297.418.10758

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please your mastership to wete that the assise holde this day at
Thetford ; PASTON,II,297.418.10759

<P_II,298>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for any newe assise that ye spak of , ther is non ner non other
savyng on for a man a-bought Brunham . PASTON,II,298.418.10760

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I spak wyth Herward , PASTON,II,298.418.10761

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I askyd hym if ther was any gret day at Bury ;
PASTON,II,298.418.10762

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid ther was but a small day , PASTON,II,298.418.10763

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for any assises ther were non but old . PASTON,II,298.418.10764

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he told me that Debenham and the vndirshireff were falle ought .
PASTON,II,298.418.10765

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Debenham bare the shireff on hand that he had do indited an hundred men
son he cam in-to his office , PASTON,II,298.418.10766

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the shireff told hym that the Kynges bokes apperid whedir it was so
or noght ; PASTON,II,298.418.10767

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he told Debenham that he coud indite an hundred at on tyme whan ye
were indited , PASTON,II,298.418.10768

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and named yow . PASTON,II,298.418.10769

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The cause of ther brekyng , ther was a man kyllid now late in Suffolk ,
PASTON,II,298.418.10770

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he that ded it was on of Debenhams men ; PASTON,II,298.418.10771

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and Herward told me that the shireff seyd to hym he wold do Debenham a
shrewd turne and he coud . PASTON,II,298.418.10772

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , it was told me at Norwich that Master Berney shuld haue be here
wyth a gret felaship , PASTON,II,298.418.10773

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
end it is not so , PASTON,II,298.418.10774

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ner no man heryth of his comyng , PASTON,II,298.418.10775

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ner here is but litill pepill nowthir . PASTON,II,298.418.10776

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
There were not so fewe this iij yere , as men sey .
PASTON,II,298.418.10777

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Herward askyd me where John Gayn was , PASTON,II,298.418.10778

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I askyd why ; PASTON,II,298.418.10779

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid ther is a capias ought ayens hym vpon the condempnaceon
PASTON,II,298.418.10780

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the shireff hath it . PASTON,II,298.418.10781

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He had me geve hym warnyng . PASTON,II,298.418.10782

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is retournabill xv=a= Pasch . PASTON,II,298.418.10783

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , thei sey here that the Kyng was on Monday at Waltham .
PASTON,II,298.418.10784

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Nicholas Colman hath brought home your fardell .
PASTON,II,298.418.10785

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is at Norwich . PASTON,II,298.418.10786

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , ther be nomore juges here but Ser Pers Ardern .
PASTON,II,298.418.10787

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Thetford the Wednesday the last day of Februare .
PASTON,II,298.418.10788

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Wymondham is here , PASTON,II,298.418.10789

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and was at the shirehows this day , and the Kynges livery abought his
nekke , PASTON,II,298.418.10790

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there stood be the juge whill a lettir of the Kynges was red .
PASTON,II,298.418.10791

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The effect was , as it was told me , that the Kyng will that justise be
had , and that all risers ayens the pees and oppressers of the pepill
be chasteised , letyng hem wete that he was late in Cambriggeshire and
that there such as had offendid askyd grace , whech thei had , savyng
such as were rewlers whom he will somwhat see punysshid , purposyng to
be in this contry abought Estern , &c . PASTON,II,298.418.10792

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_418:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt John Pampyng PASTON,II,298.418.10793

<Q_PAS_A_1464_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_419> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,299>

{ED:685._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1464,_28_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wurschipfull my Mastre John Paston be this delyuerd
in haste . </font> PASTON,II,299.419.10794

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it youre goode maistrechipp to witte that I haue be wyth my
Mastre Calthorppe for the matre ye wrote to hym fore , wherin I haue
founde hym ryght weele disposed and favorably . PASTON,II,299.419.10795

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles he tolde me that William Jenney hath bene hes goode frende
and haue ben of hes councell this ij yere in all hes matres towchyng
the lawe ; PASTON,II,299.419.10796

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but he seide leuer he hadde lose the lessere frende than the greete
frende , PASTON,II,299.419.10797

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so he hathe graunted favour accordyng to youre desire ,
PASTON,II,299.419.10798

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wrote a lettre to +te vndrescheryff of Norffolk that he schuld take
suerte` sufficient to save hym harmeles , and that done to write a
letter to the vndrescheryff of Suffolk and lete hym witte that he hathe
taken suerte` that ye schall appere in the Crastino Animarum vpon the
exigentes returnable , or ell to bryng a super-sedias laufful be-fore
that daye , chargyng hym that he do sece the callyng of the writtes and
to retorne that ye appered the furst day ; weche suerte` is taken and a
letter wreten to the vndrescheryff of Suffolk accordyng herto .
PASTON,II,299.419.10799

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for Ser Thomas Howes , he lythe most at Norwiche .
PASTON,II,299.419.10800

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can thynke he come not vp to London tyll Michelmes .
PASTON,II,299.419.10801

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I rode ouer to Techewelle whan that I whas at Mastre Calthorpps
for to haue had money of the fermours , PASTON,II,299.419.10802

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and Yeluerton and Ser Thomas hathe sent to hem that they schul pay to
you no more money , PASTON,II,299.419.10803

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for that they had payed to you they schulde payed a-yene to them ;
PASTON,II,299.419.10804

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I goude gete no money of hem . Wherfore I went for to distreyne
hem , PASTON,II,299.419.10805

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so they seide that I myght not distreyne hem
PASTON,II,299.419.10806

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I come be-fore the daye , PASTON,II,299.419.10807

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for her day is at Midsomer . PASTON,II,299.419.10808

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles I wold not lette , for that Simond Miller and other
promysed to Mastre William Cotyng and to me that I schuld haue the
money aftre Midsomer so that I brought wyth me a quetaunce of suche
money as ye haue receyued of hem , or ell a generall quetaunce ;
PASTON,II,299.419.10809

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the tone I purposed to do in haste be the advice of the seide
Mastre W. Cotyng , PASTON,II,299.419.10810

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for and I torned I can thynke it schulde hurte .
PASTON,II,299.419.10811

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I am purposed to lete it in youre name to other folkes , or to them
a-yen and suerte` founde to you , &c . PASTON,II,299.419.10812

<P_II,300>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty God precerue and kepe you . PASTON,II,300.419.10813

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Norwiche on Sen Petres Even . PASTON,II,300.419.10814

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:43
LETTER:PASTON_419:M4:1464:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pore seruaunt and bedman Richard Calle PASTON,II,300.419.10815

<Q_PAS_A_1465_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_420> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,306>

{ED:688._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1465,_6_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right wurshypfull ser , my right honourabyll Maistir John
Paston , at London . </font> PASTON,II,306.420.10816

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wurshipfull ser and my right honourabyll maistir , I recomaund me
to you jn the most humble wise . PASTON,II,306.420.10817

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And please youre maistirship to wete that my maistresse hathe dyuerse
tymez spokyn to me to helpe to purvey a marchaunt fore sum of youre
malt , but in good feyth I can gete no man that wyll geue at the most
more than xxij d. fore a quarter , PASTON,II,306.420.10818

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore soo men selle dayli at the moste , and sumtyme xx d. a combe .
PASTON,II,306.420.10819

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maistresse is right heuy therfore , PASTON,II,306.420.10820

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I can not remedy it . PASTON,II,306.420.10821

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If ony good marchaunt were there , after my sympil conseyt it were good
to take hym , PASTON,II,306.420.10822

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore the yeer passith faste PASTON,II,306.420.10823

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the $feldys be right plesaunt to-wardys , &c .
PASTON,II,306.420.10824

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , at the reuerence of Jesu laboure the meanys to haue peas ,
PASTON,II,306.420.10825

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore be my trowth the contynwaunce <em> of thys </em> trobyll shall
short the dayez of my maistresse PASTON,II,306.420.10826

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it shall cause you to gret losse ; PASTON,II,306.420.10827

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore serteyn she is in <em> gret </em> $heuynesse , as it apperith at
<em> ... </em> ull couertly . PASTON,II,306.420.10828

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
She consederith the gret decay of youre lyflode , the gret dettys that
hange in detourys handys and h <em> ... </em> h not thus to me ,
PASTON,II,306.420.10829

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I conceyfe this is cause of here gret heuynesse .
PASTON,II,306.420.10830

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Me semyth of ij hurtys the leste is $most <em> ... </em> well the dayli
<P_II,307> contynewyng maleyse of youre insessiabyll enemyes , how they
contryue and seke occacionis to <em> ... </em> $infourmyd more wyll doo
euery foot of grownd wyth-jnne fewe dayez , and rathere to geue it awey
fore nowght <em> than ... </em> it . PASTON,II,307.420.10831

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Where as they many tymez haue meovyd a trety and neuer it taketh to noo
conclucion , and as they haue seyd in youre d <em> ... </em>
PASTON,II,307.420.10832

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , after my sympyll conseyt it were well doon to agree to a trety
PASTON,II,307.420.10833

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and be that ye shuld knowe there desyre and the vttir <em> ... </em>
the lond were dubyll the valwe that it is . PASTON,II,307.420.10834

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wursestyr shewyth hem presedentys what euery maner cost at the fyrst
byeng , PASTON,II,307.420.10835

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther <em> ... </em> rekne the bargeyne shuld auayle you foure tymes
more than it shall , PASTON,II,307.420.10836

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in thys they be gretly blyndyd . PASTON,II,307.420.10837

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maistir the parson hathe b <em> ... </em> to rellesse in serteyn
londys , whiche he <em> refuseth to </em> doo ; PASTON,II,307.420.10838

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I conseyue and ye drawe not to a conclucion thys terme that he wyll
be as redy to <em> rellesse ... </em> men , PASTON,II,307.420.10839

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
truste ye thys fore serteyn ; PASTON,II,307.420.10840

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and soo he $teld me serteynly . PASTON,II,307.420.10841

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath be meovyd to revoke Maistir Roberd Kente and $to take the
avoket ore <em> proctor ... </em> Maistir Yelwirton hathe .
PASTON,II,307.420.10842

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What it myght hurtyn if he soo dede I knowe not ,
PASTON,II,307.420.10843

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but they haue made gret laboure to hym therfore .
PASTON,II,307.420.10844

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He gaf me a gret <em> rebuke ... </em> the bill that was put in ayens
Elyse , Davy , and otheris , to whiche I anssweryd hym as me thowght
and soo in maner made my peas , &c . PASTON,II,307.420.10845

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Maistir $Stokys was here , PASTON,II,307.420.10846

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in presence of men of the most substaunce in Jernemuth he be-hauyd
hym to you wardys in full goodly termys , soo God helpe $me ,
PASTON,II,307.420.10847

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after my conseyt he wyll not be redy to relesse in ony of the
londys . PASTON,II,307.420.10848

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A man of hyse told me secretly that Maistir Yelwyrton and otherys
blamyd hym and seyd gr <em> ... </em> to hym be-cause he was so redy be
hym-self to agree to trete and make hyse peas wyth yow ;
PASTON,II,307.420.10849

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
neythere he seyd to me to trete nor the contrary ,
PASTON,II,307.420.10850

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor had but langwage to me as he had to othyr . PASTON,II,307.420.10851

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I askyd my maistir the parson if he vndyrstod that Maistir Yelwyrton
yaf ony fauoure to $my lord of Suffolk in Drayton ,
PASTON,II,307.420.10852

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he seyd he supposyd Maistir Yelwyrton was not clere of that matere
, PASTON,II,307.420.10853

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but Maystir Jenney was in nowyse pleasyd wyth all , &c .
PASTON,II,307.420.10854

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , as fore the wytnesse that were desyred to be redy whan nede
requirith , in thys matere R. Calle can auertise youre maistirshyp .
PASTON,II,307.420.10855

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , at the reuerence of Jesu consedre how many yeerys it is past that
my good lord and maistir deseasyd , and how lytill is doon for <em> ...
</em> of the gret substaunce that he hade ; PASTON,II,307.420.10856

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it is heuy to remembre . PASTON,II,307.420.10857

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye sey the defaute is <P_II,308> not in yow , after youre conseyt ;
PASTON,II,308.420.10858

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I can here no <em> ... </em> in that of youre openyon ,
PASTON,II,308.420.10859

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore thys I knowe for serteyn , PASTON,II,308.420.10860

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it had pleasyd you to haue endyd be the meanys of trety ye had <em>
made ... </em> peas to the gret well of the dede wyth the forthe part
of the mony that hathe be spent , PASTON,II,308.420.10861

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as men sey only of very <em> wylfullnesse ... </em> owyn person .
PASTON,II,308.420.10862

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fore the mercy of God remembre the onstabylnesse of thys wold , hou it
is not a menut space in comparyson to euer <em> ... </em> leue
wylfullnesse , whyche men sey ye ocupye to excessifly .
PASTON,II,308.420.10863

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Blyssyd be God ye had a fayre day laste , whiche is noysyd cost yow
<em> ... </em> to iiij lordys ; PASTON,II,308.420.10864

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but a newe matere a newe cost , PASTON,II,308.420.10865

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and many smale growe to a gret summe , and summe matere on-recurabyll ,
PASTON,II,308.420.10866

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore men seyd <em> ... </em> is lyk to stonden in a perplextif if ye
take not a conclucion in haste , PASTON,II,308.420.10867

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if it were doo it were hard to haue recouery .
PASTON,II,308.420.10868

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But as my $maistir the parson seyd , thys terme they wyll proue if ye
wyll agree to trete , PASTON,II,308.420.10869

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if ye refuse they all wyll do the vttirmest .
PASTON,II,308.420.10870

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I conseyue well $youre maistirshyp hathe a conseyt that if a man of
good will meove yow ore remembre you to trete , that that man , what
soo euer he be , shuld be meovyd be youre aduersaryez to meove you in
that matere , and soo in that it hertyth you gretly that they shuld
seke to you fore peas . PASTON,II,308.420.10871

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Be my trowth , ser , there was nore is no man , sauyng onys as I teld
you Maistir Jenney spak to me , that euer I knewe wold seke $ore
feythefully desyre to haue peas wyth yow sauyng be-cause of the
exspence of the good so onprofitably in the lawe ,
PASTON,II,308.420.10872

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that is the $prynsypall cause of meovyng of there peas , &c .
PASTON,II,308.420.10873

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold well , God helpe me soo ; PASTON,II,308.420.10874

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
it grevyth me to here that ye stonde in no fauour wyth jentylmen nore
in no gret awe wyth the comowns . PASTON,II,308.420.10875

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye truste the jury of Suffolk . PASTON,II,308.420.10876

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Remembre what promyse Daubeney hade of the jury , and what it avaylid .
PASTON,II,308.420.10877

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
It is a dethe to $me to remembre in what prosperite` and in what degre`
ye myght stonde in Norfolk and Suffolk and ye had peas and were in
hertys ease , and what wurshyp my maistirys youre sones and my
maistresse youre douterys myght haue be proferryd to if ye had be in
reste . PASTON,II,308.420.10878

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A day lost in jdyll can neuer be recoueryd , &c .
PASTON,II,308.420.10879

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , I beseke youre maistirshyp fore-yeue me that I wryte thus boldly
and homly to you . PASTON,II,308.420.10880

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Me thynkyth my herte <em> ... </em> not be in ease but if I soo doo ,
PASTON,II,308.420.10881

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
fore there was nore neuer $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} no matere that euer
was soo nere myn herte , that <em> knowyth God </em> , whom I beseke
fore hese jnfenyt mercy preserue you and my maistresse and all yourys
from all aduersyte` and graunt yow <em> ... </em> hertys desyre .
PASTON,II,308.420.10882

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Jernemuthe the vj day of May . PASTON,II,308.420.10883

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_420:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre <em> contynwal bedeman </em> and seruaunt John $Russe
PASTON,II,308.420.10884

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_421> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_I> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,310>

{ED:690._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1465,_10_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Mastre John Paston yn hast . </font>
PASTON,II,310.421.10885

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it youre maysterschip to witte of the rwle and disposicion of
the Mastre Philip and the balyf of Cossey , wyth othere of my lorde of
Suffolk men , PASTON,II,310.421.10886

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
on Monday last past at aftre-noon were at Heylesdon wyth the nombre of
ccc men forto haue entred , notwythstandyng they sayde they come not
for to entre , PASTON,II,310.421.10887

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but wythoute dought and they had ben strong j-nough for vs they wolde
haue entred , PASTON,II,310.421.10888

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and that we vndrestonde nough ; PASTON,II,310.421.10889

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but we knowyng of ther comyng and purveyd so for hem +tat we were
stronge j-nough . We had lx men wythinne the place , and gonnes and
suche ordynauns , so that if they had sette vpp-on vs they had be
distroyed . PASTON,II,310.421.10890

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And ther my mastres was wythinne , and my mastre Ser John ,
PASTON,II,310.421.10891

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and hathe goten hym as grete worchip for that day as any gentelman
myght doo , PASTON,II,310.421.10892

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so is it reported of ther partye and in all Norwiche .
PASTON,II,310.421.10893

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my lorde of Norwiche sent theder Mastre John Salett and Mastre John
Bulleman for to trete , PASTON,II,310.421.10894

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so they ded ; PASTON,II,310.421.10895

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the Duc men seide they had a warant for to attache John Dawbeney ,
Wykes , Calle , Hunewurthe , and Bliclyng , and other weche they wold
haue ; PASTON,II,310.421.10896

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and my mastre Ser John answered hem PASTON,II,310.421.10897

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seide +tat they were not wythine , PASTON,II,310.421.10898

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and though we had ben they schuld not haue had hem .
PASTON,II,310.421.10899

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so they desired oon of our men , PASTON,II,310.421.10900

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so Naunton stode by my mastres PASTON,II,310.421.10901

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
$and {TEXT:ad} haxed hem whom they wold haue , PASTON,II,310.421.10902

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seyde if they wold haue hym he wold go wyth hem ,
PASTON,II,310.421.10903

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so he ded . PASTON,II,310.421.10904

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And on the next day they caryed hym forthe to my lord of Suffolk to
Claxton through Norwich ; PASTON,II,310.421.10905

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ther we had founde a remedy for hym for to haue lette hym ,
PASTON,II,310.421.10906

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he wold not but nedys go forthe wyth hem ; PASTON,II,310.421.10907

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but like a jentelman he was entreted amonges hem .
PASTON,II,310.421.10908

<P_II,311>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Harleston desyred at Heylesdon to speke wyth my mastre Ser John ,
PASTON,II,311.421.10909

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so he ded PASTON,II,311.421.10910

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seyde to hym it were ryght weele don that he rode to my lord of
Suffolk and desired hym in any wice that he schulde do so ,
PASTON,II,311.421.10911

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and seyde that it was hes dwte` so for to do in asmoche as my lorde was
come to contre` , and that he wolde ryde wyth hym and brynge hym to my
lorde . PASTON,II,311.421.10912

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And he answerd and seide to hym whan that he vndrestode that my lord
were hes fathers goode lord and hes , +tat +tanne he wolde se hes
lordschip , and ell he had non aronde to hym ; PASTON,II,311.421.10913

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so they departed . PASTON,II,311.421.10914

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And thanne appoyntement was taken that they schuld sende home ther men
and we schuld send home oure ; PASTON,II,311.421.10915

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and nough my lordes of Suffolk men come from Claxton to Norwich
PASTON,II,311.421.10916

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and face vs PASTON,II,311.421.10917

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and fray vppon vs dayly . PASTON,II,311.421.10918

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ther fylle vppon me be-fore Swayne dore xij of hes men , viij of them
in harneys , PASTON,II,311.421.10919

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ther they wold haue myscheved me ; PASTON,II,311.421.10920

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the scheryf letted hem , and other , PASTON,II,311.421.10921

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and they make ther awaunte PASTON,II,311.421.10922

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
were +tat I may be goten I schal dye , PASTON,II,311.421.10923

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so they lye in a-wayte for to myscheve me , Dawbeney , and Wykes ;
PASTON,II,311.421.10924

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I dare not ryde out a-lone wythoute a man wyth me .
PASTON,II,311.421.10925

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I vndrestonde ther is comyn an heyre determyner to enquere of all
ryottes , PASTON,II,311.421.10926

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and my lord of Suffolk and Yeluerton be comysconers ;
PASTON,II,311.421.10927

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so they sey as money of vs as can be taken schal be endyted and
hanged forwyth , PASTON,II,311.421.10928

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so the people here are dysmayed wyth thes rwle . Wherfore that it
like you to sende word how my mastres schal do at Heylesdon , and we in
all other maters ; and wether ye wol that we feche a-yene the flok of
Heylesdon , PASTON,II,311.421.10929

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for they are nough dreven to Causton PASTON,II,311.421.10930

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there go they on the heythe . PASTON,II,311.421.10931

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my lord of Suffolk $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} at Drayton on Lammes Daye
and kepe the coorte there ; wherefore ye must seke som remedy for it ,
or ell it wol not do weele . PASTON,II,311.421.10932

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
If my lord of Norfolk wold come he schuld make all weele ,
PASTON,II,311.421.10933

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for they feere hym a-bove all thynges ; PASTON,II,311.421.10934

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it is noyced here +tat my lord of Norfolk hathe taken partye in
thes mater , PASTON,II,311.421.10935

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and all the contre` is cladde of it , seyng +tat if he come they woll
hooly go wyth hym . PASTON,II,311.421.10936

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And me semethe it were wele don to meve my lord in it , though ye
schuld geue hym the profyghtes of Heylesdon and Drayton for the kepyng
and som money be-side ; PASTON,II,311.421.10937

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ye must seke som other remedy than ye do , PASTON,II,311.421.10938

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
or ell in my conseyte it schall go to the dwel and be distroyed , and
that in ryght schorte tyme . PASTON,II,311.421.10939

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And therfore , at the reuerence of God , take som appuyntement wyth
Mastre Yeluerton and suche as ye thynke schuld most hurte .
PASTON,II,311.421.10940

<P_II,312>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I beseche you to pardon me of my wrytyng , PASTON,II,312.421.10941

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I haue pitte` to se the trybulacion that my mastres hathe here ,
and all youre frendes , &c . PASTON,II,312.421.10942

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Jesu preserue and kepe you . PASTON,II,312.421.10943

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten the Wednesday next Seint Thomas Daye . PASTON,II,312.421.10944

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:1421:44
LETTER:PASTON_421:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your pore seruaunt and bedman Richard Calle PASTON,II,312.421.10945

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_T_RSOUTHWELL> <L_PASTON_422> <A_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,324>

{ED:700._FROM_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL_NOT_AFTER_1466}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my right reuerent and worshippfull John Paston , esquier , in
hast . </font> PASTON,II,324.422.10946

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sire , I recomaunde me vnto you PASTON,II,324.422.10947

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thanke you as I may of your grete and feithfull labour for me to
the meire and recordour as for the apperaunce of certein persones
before them at theire sessions , like as I wrote vnto you from
Walsyngham . PASTON,II,324.422.10948

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Howe beit I vnderstande by a letter the whiche I sende you that Thomas
Wolvesby and Colyns make grete labour to the vtter vndoyng of the
pouere men with-oute your speciall gode mastershipp vnto them in
labouring and exorting the meire and the recordour to haue $pite` vppon
them and consideracion to theire trouble at Walsingham , the whiche
thei might in no wise avoyde PASTON,II,324.422.10949

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thei were prisoners in this matiere . PASTON,II,324.422.10950

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I require and beseche you , as euer I may do you seruice , to comon
with the meire in as shorte tyme as {in}_P ye godely may and can be
your wisdam entrete hym to be sewere of hym , that I might haue redy
worde from you of his entent ; and that ye will pardon me of my
male-aperte writing vnto you and bolde calling vppon you to your grete
labour . PASTON,II,324.422.10951

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if there be any thing that I can or may do for you I am bounden to
be and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} at your comaundement , by the grace of
God , whom I beseche to haue you euer in his blessid gouernaunce .
PASTON,II,324.422.10952

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writon at Thetford on Sherethursday in haste . PASTON,II,324.422.10953

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_422:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your own Richard Suthwell PASTON,II,324.422.10954

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_T_RSOUTHWELL> <L_PASTON_423> <A_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,325>

{ED:701._FROM_RICHARD_SOUTHWELL_NOT_AFTER_1466}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the right worshippfull and my right feithfull gode cosin John
Paston , esquier . </font> PASTON,II,325.423.10955

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshippfull and my right feithfull gode cosin , I recomaunde me
vn-to you , PASTON,II,325.423.10956

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as hertily as I can thanke you of your right gentill and kynde
remembraunce that I consceyve weell by your late writyng that ye haue
tomewardes , vndeserved in dede but not in will , so God helpe me , as
ye shuld weell knowe if my powere might accorde with my will .
PASTON,II,325.423.10957

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , cosin , in the mater that it liked you to remembre me in ,
bothe-3 to my worshipp and pleaser , I feere me that nouthere my pouere
doughter nor pouere purs can nor may be to his pleaser .
PASTON,II,325.423.10958

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wold God outhere might , PASTON,II,325.423.10959

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shuld take me right neere to his pleaser , savyng my-self , I
ensure you by my trouth . PASTON,II,325.423.10960

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And howe to vnderstand his pleaser and disposicion therin I see no mean
as thus advised , PASTON,II,325.423.10961

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but if it might please you by your wisdam to attempte it forthere as ye
seme moste conveniente , and theruppon I to be guyded by your gode
advise as the cas shall require ; wherin ye shall bynde me herefter to
do that may be to your pleaser to my powere , and yette with no better
will than I haue had , so God help me , who haue you euer in his keping
and sende you your hertes desire to his pleaser .
PASTON,II,325.423.10962

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if it please you to remembre furthere in the premisses I trust ye
shall leese no labour on my pouere parte ; PASTON,II,325.423.10963

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
howe be it I fere me sore , as I be-gan , bothe-2 of my pouere doughter
and purs . PASTON,II,325.423.10964

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writon at Woderysyng the morn efter Oure Lady Day in haste .
PASTON,II,325.423.10965

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I require you this bill may be secrete . PASTON,II,325.423.10966

AUTHOR:RICHARD_SOUTHWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_423:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
By your trewe cosin Richard Suthwell PASTON,II,325.423.10967

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_424> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_I>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,326>

{ED:703._FROM_JAMES_GRESHAM_NOT_AFTER_1466}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_I}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my Mayster Paston . </font> PASTON,II,326.424.10968

<P_II,327>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please it your maistership to wytte that as touchyng Sporle it is
inquerid and founde what harm is in the wode by lakke of hedgyn , &c.
and +te reparacion of the berne , &c. , as ye shall se by the papir of
the court . PASTON,II,327.424.10969

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng the hurt of spryng in the wode by beestes , +terof haue
+tei day til +te next court . PASTON,II,327.424.10970

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng the tilthe of +te londis , Louvell thought it was not best
to speke +terof , PASTON,II,327.424.10971

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for ye shall knowe it by als good a mene and more couertly and as
sewerly by Lovelles labour . PASTON,II,327.424.10972

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng the iij yeer growyng of +te woode avayleth noman
PASTON,II,327.424.10973

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but it hurtith , PASTON,II,327.424.10974

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +te fermours now may not selle it the better ,
PASTON,II,327.424.10975

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
so it semyth that it shall othir-3 by your hurt or Halmans ;
PASTON,II,327.424.10976

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +te wode shuld rather haue be better to haue be fellid yeerly in
Halmans tyme thanne to haue be gyded as it hath be now by the growyng .
PASTON,II,327.424.10977

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng Cressyngham , +ter is suyche a weye take +tat I hope +te
wastes shall be amendet alle , but if it be oon of +tem whiche with
contynuance of respite shall also amende , as I trost .
PASTON,II,327.424.10978

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your tenantes arn gretly hurt by the shireves turn ,
PASTON,II,327.424.10979

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +te Priour of Norwich tenantes , your tenauntes , and John Cooes
tenauntes shulde bere the reve $at $te {TEXT:atte} shirreves turn , and
yche of tho lordshippes bere xviij d. to be payed $at $te {TEXT:atte}
turn ; PASTON,II,327.424.10980

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and by craft it is euery yeer leyd up-on your tenauntz ,
PASTON,II,327.424.10981

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if owght be by-hynde the shireves officeris by the menes of Cooes
tenauntz and +te Priours tenaunt {ED:z} distreygne your tenauntz to
+teir right gret hurt . PASTON,II,327.424.10982

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also ye haue a lete +tere , PASTON,II,327.424.10983

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and for lakke of holdyng +terof ye lese your auayles ,
PASTON,II,327.424.10984

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also your tenauntz ar like to be compelled to goo to Rysle`s lete ,
&c . PASTON,II,327.424.10985

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your court roules and lete roules ar not +tere , wherfor ye must
purueye them to be +tere . PASTON,II,327.424.10986

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And your comyng theder shuld comfort your tenauntz there gretly , as
+tei sey . PASTON,II,327.424.10987

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As touchyng any recept of monay , truly I can noon gete
PASTON,II,327.424.10988

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for Fulchier hopith that he is nothyng so fer in arrerages as ye wene .
PASTON,II,327.424.10989

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he hath sent yow monay late , PASTON,II,327.424.10990

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +terfor he trostith your maistership wole not be displeased .
PASTON,II,327.424.10991

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Halman can not yet gete monay , PASTON,II,327.424.10992

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for his cornes arn at so litell price +tat he can not vtter them ,
PASTON,II,327.424.10993

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yet is +ter noman wole bye it for al the gret chep , &c .
PASTON,II,327.424.10994

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He trustith to make puruyance at Michelmesse , so as ye shall be his
good maister ; PASTON,II,327.424.10995

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but as at this tyme he may no better awey , as he seith .
PASTON,II,327.424.10996

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pouere seruaunt James Gresham PASTON,II,327.424.10997

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
More-ouer please it yow to wytte that Calybut tellyth me he spak neuer
to the vycar of Sporle to be bounde for hym , PASTON,II,327.424.10998

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he seyth ye were agreed to <P_II,328> his owyn sewerte` and
Franceys Costardes as for hym . PASTON,II,328.424.10999

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And +tis is cause +tat I haue take no sewerte` ; wherfor yf it like yow
to do write up th'endenture that I may haue it that oon part vndir your
seall , they shall mete with me at Gressenhale on Seynt Bertilmew
{ED:is} Day and enseale +tat othir part , and +teir sewerte` also , so
+tat they haue wetyng from yow at Swafham market +te Satirday next
to-fore Seynt Bertilmewis Day ; PASTON,II,328.424.11000

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_I:MALE:_:1421:_
LETTER:PASTON_424:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ellis they mete not with me . PASTON,II,328.424.11001

<Q_PAS_A_1460_T_JBRACKLEY> <L_PASTON_425> <A_JOHN_BRACKLEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_--->
<R_WILLIAM_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1436>

<P_II,332>

{ED:705._FROM_FRIAR_JOHN_BRACKLEY_1460,_BEFORE_EASTER}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Jesu mercy , Marie help , cum sanctis omnibus , trewe menyng
executourys fro fals terrauntys and alle tribulacyonys , amen .
PASTON,II,332.425.11002

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryte reuerent sire , &c. , W. Y. judex and hise wyf were here wyth here
meny and here hors in Our Ladyes place , &c. , on Satyrday at evyn
PASTON,II,332.425.11003

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yedyn hens on Monday aftyr none , whan summe had drunkyn malvyseye
and tyre , &c . PASTON,II,332.425.11004

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I prechid on the Sonday byfore hem , not warnyd tyl after mete ;
PASTON,II,332.425.11005

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than , for lak of Maystyr Vergeant or owr wardeyn Barnard , I
sodeynly seyd the sermon . PASTON,II,332.425.11006

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And byfore I had ryte evyl and soleyn chere of hem bothe , &c. ,
PASTON,II,332.425.11007

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but aftyr the sermon he seyd opely to the Priowr , heryng myche folk in
the chirch , ' I haf herd hym oftyn here and ellys-where ,
PASTON,II,332.425.11008

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but is the best that evyr I herd hym sey , ' &c. ,
PASTON,II,332.425.11009

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at evyn drank to me PASTON,II,332.425.11010

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made me good chere , half on the splene , &c .
PASTON,II,332.425.11011

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But on Moneday , whan he had ny etyn and drunkyn a-now , he gan to
rollyn hym in hise relatyvis , PASTON,II,332.425.11012

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and weeldyd hym , as many men thowtyn , ryte ongayly in hise gere , &c.
; hise wyf begynnyng the comunicacyon wyth rite a sootyl chere .
PASTON,II,332.425.11013

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he heeld on so sore he cowd not cese , &c. , tyl he went <P_II,333>
to hise hors , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11014

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Pryowr demenyd hym gentylly in hise talkyng .
PASTON,II,333.425.11015

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And there was not for+getyn non vnkyndnesse of my maystyr J. P. +gowr
bro+tyr , of sleyng of hise man Wormgey , and of mariage of hise
dowghtyr whiche now schal solempnely be maryed to Conerys , a knytys
sone , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11016

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And now last at Seynt Benettys , where he so worschipful a justise and
as kunnyng in lawe as evyr was +gowr fadyr , &c. , as alle men knowyn ,
&c . And +gowr bro+tyr J. P. brokyn owt be occasyon of +gowr langage ,
and takyn wytnesse of Malmysbury , a man of my lord of Cauntyrbury
whiche hath spokyn wyth the seyd justise the last terme in Westmystyr
Halle . PASTON,II,333.425.11017

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And there he seyd more tymes than one , ' Sire , this the first tyme
that evyr I spake wyth +gowr lordchip ' , &c. , PASTON,II,333.425.11018

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sythe aftyr +ge weryn at Seynt Benettys forseyd +ge komyn not
gentylly but ryte malicyously dysposid to myn Lady Felbrygg ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11019

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and dede yowr devoyre to haf put hym owt of hire conceyt ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11020

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and it wolde not be , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11021

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And what vyolens my Maystyr J. P. , germanus vester , dede to W. Wayt ,
&c. vp-on hise owne grownd at Musshold , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11022

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And aftyr al these materys bare me on hand +tat I had seyd to on of the
worthiest of the schyre that the seyd justise be-gan the brekyng at
Seynt Benettys , PASTON,II,333.425.11023

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I suppose I seyd thus to my Lord Fyz Watyr alias my Maistyr
Radclyff , to whose in I went to and +gaf hym a potel of swete wyne ,
he demaundyng me of that brekyng , &c. , as I remembre me
PASTON,II,333.425.11024

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and suppose I seyd W. Y. Justise began to myn knowlache and
$vndyrstondyng , whan he seyd so fumowsly , ' Who so evyr sey that of
me , he lyeth falsly in hise hede ' , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11025

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my Maystyr Radclyff rode forthe-wyth owt of towne to Dokkyng and
Brunham , PASTON,II,333.425.11026

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wyth hym rode W. Y. , sone to the justise ; PASTON,II,333.425.11027

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf the seyd Radclyff teld this to W. Y. I wote nevyr ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11028

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf he dede I merveyle sore . PASTON,II,333.425.11029

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But and al go to al as is lyke to go , I may not sey nay ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11030

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I trowe I seyd so . PASTON,II,333.425.11031

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Radclyf and +ge bene grete frendys ; PASTON,II,333.425.11032

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold +ge wold lat hym knowe the trowth , &c . PASTON,II,333.425.11033

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This matyr mevyd the justisis wyf , PASTON,II,333.425.11034

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than he be-gan hise matyr more boldly , seying to me be-fore the
Pryowr and miche pepyl that it was told hym the same day that I seyd as
for the brekyng the justise be-gan . ' For sothe ' , seyd I , ' whan I
came in-to the chambre there the fyrst word I hard was this , that +ge
seyd to my Maystyr J. P. , " Who that evyr seyth so , I sey he lyeth
falsly in hise hede " , &c. ' PASTON,II,333.425.11035

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Ya ' , quod the justise , ' +ge schuld haf told what mevyd me to sey
so to hym ' ; PASTON,II,333.425.11036

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I seyd I cowde not tellyn that I not herd , &c .
PASTON,II,333.425.11037

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et judex , ' +Ge schuld haf examyned the matyr ' , &c .
PASTON,II,333.425.11038

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I seyd , ' Sire , it longyd not to me to examyne the matyr ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11039

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I knew wele I schuld not be jvge in the matyr ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11040

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alonly to a juge it longyth to seue and stodyen illam Sacre
Scripture clausulam whiche holy Job seyd , Causam quam nesciebam
diligentissime investigabam . ' PASTON,II,333.425.11041

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And $than , ' No ' , seyth he hardyly , ' +ge schal not be jvge ,
PASTON,II,333.425.11042

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yf +ge had owt me as good wil as +ge <P_II,334> dede and do to
Paston , +ge wold than haue sergyd the cause of my gret greef , why I
seyd as I seyd , &c. ; PASTON,II,334.425.11043

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I haf sey the day +ge lovyd me betyr than hym ,
PASTON,II,334.425.11044

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for he yaf +gow nevyr cause of love as I haf done ' , &c .
PASTON,II,334.425.11045

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Sire ' , I sey , ' he hath yovyn me cause swyche as I am be-hold to
hym fore , ' &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11046

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
' Ya ' , seyth he , ' +ge schal bere wytnesse , &c. , and the o+tyr
Maystyr Clement and W. Schipdham . ' PASTON,II,334.425.11047

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cui ego , ' As for the wytness I schal bere I schal sey and writyn as I
knowe ' , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11048

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cui ille , ' I made hise testament , PASTON,II,334.425.11049

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I knowe ' , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11050

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cui ego , ' I saw nevir testament of yowr makyng ;
PASTON,II,334.425.11051

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as for on testament that he made , and I knowe bo+te the writere
and makere , aftyr hise wyl and intent +ge stonde stille there-in as
+ge dede than ' , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11052

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et tunc gauisus est , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11053

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et ille , ' I knowe +ge haf a gret hert , &c. , PASTON,II,334.425.11054

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I ensure +gow the lordys a-bove at London arn infoormyd of +gow ,
PASTON,II,334.425.11055

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they schal delyn wyth +gow wele anow . ' PASTON,II,334.425.11056

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cui ego , ' He or they that hafe infoormyd the lordys wele of me , I am
behold to hem . PASTON,II,334.425.11057

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf they be o+tyrwyse infoormyd I schal do as wele as I may ;
PASTON,II,334.425.11058

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but be myn trowthe I schal not be aferd to sey as I knowe for none lord
of this lond , yf I may go saf and come , quod non credo , per deum ,
propter euidencias multas ' , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11059

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tunc Prior , ' Domine , non expedit nec racioni seu vere consciencie
congruit quod vos contendatis cum Magistro Paston , vel ipse vobiscum ,
pro bonis defuncti , que solum sua et non vestra sunt ;
PASTON,II,334.425.11060

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
miror valde ' , inquit , ' cum prioribus temporibus tam magni fuistis
amici , et non sic modo , quare valde doleo . ' PASTON,II,334.425.11061

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cui judex , ' There is no man besy to bryng vs to-gydere ' , &c. ; so
that I kan wele thynk it were lytil maystri . PASTON,II,334.425.11062

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But in fayth I knowe wele the iuge , W. Wayte hise mawment , hise boy
Yimmys , wyth here hevedy and fumows langage haue and dayly do vttyr
lewd and schrewd dalyauns , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11063

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I sent +gow bode of dyuers thingys be Maystyr Roger Palle ,
PASTON,II,334.425.11064

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I haf no answere , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11065

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I schuld go to Castre , PASTON,II,334.425.11066

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and a man of my lordys Norfolk told here he came fro London and there
he had comounly voysid that the Duke of Norfolk schuld be the Kyngys
comaundment kepe hise Esterne at Castre for safegard of the cuntre`
ayens Warwyk and o+tyr swich of the Kyngys enmyes whiche may lytely be
lyklynesse aryve at Waxham , &c . PASTON,II,334.425.11067

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My maystyr +gowr bro+tyr J. P. , ne ye , ne Maystyr T. Howys , ne I may
not esily be brokyd in the jugys conscyens , &c .
PASTON,II,334.425.11068

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sire Jon Tatirshales man spake wyth yow at London ,
PASTON,II,334.425.11069

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and than ye seyd to hym to hafe comyn in yowr owne person to Owr Lady
or this tyme , whiche was cause of myn abidyng here , &c .
PASTON,II,334.425.11070

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I schal , be the grace of Jesu , be at Castre on Soneday next , &c .
PASTON,II,334.425.11071

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
W. W. , J. B. , junior , Colinus Gallicus , et T. Upton multum , vt
suppono , fuerunt assidui ad informacionem malam dandam dominis
diuersis huius regni contra vestrum germanum J. P. , Magistrum T. Howes
, me , &c. ; PASTON,II,334.425.11072

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
sed confico in vobis quod vos confiditis in Christo <P_II,335> Iesu et
sanctis omnibus , qui vos , vestros , et vestra dirigat in agendis .
PASTON,II,335.425.11073

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Recommendetis me , si placeat , Magistro meo Johanni P. , vxori , et
matri , cum filiis suis nepotibus vestris , et Thome Playter vestro
dilecto amico . PASTON,II,335.425.11074

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Et quare vobis iam scribo et non vestro germano J. P. alias scietis ,
&c . PASTON,II,335.425.11075

AUTHOR:JOHN_BRACKLEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1436:24
LETTER:PASTON_425:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vester orator continuus Frater J. B. , Minorum minimus
PASTON,II,335.425.11076

<Q_PAS_B_1455?_TC_ACRANE> <L_PASTON_426> <A_ALICE_CRANE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_FRIEND>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,339>

{ED:711._FROM_ALICE_CRANE_PERHAPS_ABOUT_1455,_29_JUNE}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my cosyn Margeret Paston be this letter delyuered . </font>
PASTON,II,339.426.11077

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worshipfull cosyn , I recomaund me vn-to you , desyryng to here
of youre welfare ; PASTON,II,339.426.11078

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and if it like you to here of my welfare , at the makyng of this letter
I was in good hele , loved be God . PASTON,II,339.426.11079

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
The cause of my wrytyng to you at this tyme is this , prayng you to
send me word of youre welfare and how ye do of youre seknesse and if
the medycyn do you ony good that I send you wrytyng of last ; thankyng
you of the grete frenship that ye haue do to my moder with all my hert
. PASTON,II,339.426.11080

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Also I pray you that ye wyll be good meyn to my cosyn youre husbond
that he wyll se that my fader be well ruleyd in his lyvelode for his
worship and his profett ; also prayng you to hold me exschusyd that I
haue wryton no ofter to you , PASTON,II,339.426.11081

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
for in good feth I had no leysir PASTON,II,339.426.11082

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
for my lady hath be seke at London nere hand this quarter of this yere
, PASTON,II,339.426.11083

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and that hath be grete hevinesse to me . PASTON,II,339.426.11084

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
But now , blesyd be God , she is amendyd PASTON,II,339.426.11085

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and is in the contre` a-gayne . PASTON,II,339.426.11086

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Also thankyng you of the grete chere that I had of you when I was with
you laste with all my herte , PASTON,II,339.426.11087

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
prayng you of good contenuanse , PASTON,II,339.426.11088

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
for I had neuer gretter nede than I haue now , PASTON,II,339.426.11089

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and if I had leysere and space I wolde write to you the cause .
PASTON,II,339.426.11090

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
No more at this tyme , but the Holy Trenite` haue yow in his kepyng .
PASTON,II,339.426.11091

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Wryton at Wyndesore the xxix day of Jun . By youre pore bede omon and
cosyn Alicie Crane PASTON,II,339.426.11092

AUTHOR:ALICE_CRANE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_426:M4:1455?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Also , cosyn , I pray you to sende me sum Norfoke threde to do a-bowte
my nekke to ryde with . PASTON,II,339.426.11093

<Q_PAS_A_1461_T_TDENYS> <L_PASTON_427> <A_THOMAS_DENYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,343>

{ED:716._FROM_THOMAS_DENYS_1461,_21_OR_28_JUNE}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right noble and wurshipfull mastresse , my Mastresse
Paston , or to William Paston if she be absent . </font>
PASTON,II,343.427.11094

<P_II,344>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right noble and wurshipfull mastresse , I recomaund me to yow with my
pouer seruise . PASTON,II,344.427.11095

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for so moche as I here no thyng of my maisters your husbondes
comyng hastly home , and thogh he cam or come not it were expedient
that the Kyng were infourmed of the demenyng of the shire ,
PASTON,II,344.427.11096

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
therfore I send to yow a testymonyall which is made by a greet assent
of greet multitude of comouns to send to the Kyng .
PASTON,II,344.427.11097

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray you for the good spede therof that in all hast possible ye like
to send it to my said maister if he be with the Kyng ;
PASTON,II,344.427.11098

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
ellis fynde the meane to send it to the Kyng thogh my maister be thens
. PASTON,II,344.427.11099

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Beside forthe that ye vouchsauf to late diligent labour be made to a
sufficient noumbir to assele for my Maister Paston allone ,
PASTON,II,344.427.11100

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for if bothe holde not I wold oon helde . PASTON,II,344.427.11101

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray yow that it lyke you to send for my Maister William Paston and
shew hym all this , and that it were hastid ; PASTON,II,344.427.11102

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for on the aduersarie parte Judas slepith not . PASTON,II,344.427.11103

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Berney promised to a sent , PASTON,II,344.427.11104

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but for Our Lordes love trust not that , PASTON,II,344.427.11105

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I se his slouthe and foly labour which is no labour
PASTON,II,344.427.11106

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I wold ful fayn speke with yow , &c . PASTON,II,344.427.11107

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My maister your husbond wole parauenture blame vs all if this mater be
not applied , PASTON,II,344.427.11108

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he may not of reson do so largely heryn by his myght , because he
is elyted , as the comouns myght wisely do with help of his fauour if
it wer wisely wrought . PASTON,II,344.427.11109

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
If my Maister W. Paston ride hastly from a x daies to London , I wole
with hym if he send me word . PASTON,II,344.427.11110

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trinite` preserve yow . PASTON,II,344.427.11111

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn rudely in hast the Sunday , &c . PASTON,II,344.427.11112

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Thomas Denyes PASTON,II,344.427.11113

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DENYS:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_427:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Men sey send a wiseman on thy erand and sey litell to hym ; wherfor I
write brefly and litell . PASTON,II,344.427.11114

<Q_PAS_A_1461?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_428> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,345>

{ED:717._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1461,_3_JULY}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my moost reuerent and wourshipfull mastresse , my Mastresse
Margaret Paston , +tis be delyuerd . </font> PASTON,II,345.428.11115

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your mastresseschip that my mastre wolde that ye alowed the
berer herof for hes costes , in asmoch as he come hether for that matre
and for non other ; PASTON,II,345.428.11116

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but ye muste lete Thomas Denys wif be prevy therto ,
PASTON,II,345.428.11117

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for my mastre wol that she bere the cost , PASTON,II,345.428.11118

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it is for her matre , and that ye make her goode cheere .
PASTON,II,345.428.11119

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if ye wol haue her hom to you for a seacon vnto the tyme sche be
out of her trouble , my $mastre is agreed . PASTON,II,345.428.11120

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if sche sende to my mastre for any matre , let her sende her owne
man vpon her owne coste ; PASTON,II,345.428.11121

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
thowe ye paye the money for a secon , vnto the tyme that sche may pay
you a-yein , my mastre holdeth hym content . PASTON,II,345.428.11122

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My right wurschipful mastresse , Almyghti Jesu kepe you .
PASTON,II,345.428.11123

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at London the iij day of Jul . PASTON,II,345.428.11124

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_428:M4:1461?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your poore seruaunt and bedman Richard Call PASTON,II,345.428.11125

<Q_PAS_A_1462_T_WBARKER> <L_PASTON_429> <A_WILLIAM_BARKER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,345>

{ED:718._FROM_WILLIAM_BARKER_1462,_MAY}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Please youre maystrasshipp to enforme myn ryght worshipfull mayster of
the demenyng of Mayster Keche at Wetyng , as I lete youre maystraship
have knowlache ; PASTON,II,345.429.11126

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and ho shall on Sonday next ryde more than I , whether <P_II,346> myn
mayster youre sone or Arblaster or bothe ? PASTON,II,346.429.11127

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For Keche casteth to ben there with a greet felawship , as I here sey ,
PASTON,II,346.429.11128

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I wold not ben there but if we myght ben able to don that we come
fore , &c . In whiche mater please yow I may have aunswere by a bille
what I shal don , PASTON,II,346.429.11129

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I trust not weel the reporte of the brynger her-of for his
symplenesse and dullenesse of wytte , &c . PASTON,II,346.429.11130

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_BARKER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_429:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre seruaunt to his power W. Barker PASTON,II,346.429.11131

<Q_PAS_A_1463?_FS_JPAMPYNG> <L_PASTON_430> <A_JOHN_PAMPYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,346>

{ED:719._FROM_JOHN_PAMPYNG_PROBABLY_1463}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right worshipfull mastres , my Mastres Margret Paston , at
Caster . </font> PASTON,II,346.430.11132

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please it your good mastresship to wete +tat a fieri facias is come out
of the Eschequir for Hue Fen to the shireff of Norffolk to make levy of
cc mark of the propir goodes and catels of my masters , as executor of
Ser John Fastolff ; of whech fieri facias we sent my master word ,
whech sent us word ayen by Berney +tat we shuld lete the shiref
vndirstand that my master neuir toke vpon hym as executor , and so for
+tat cause +tat writte was no warant to take my masters goodes ; and
also +tat my master mad a dede of gift of all his goodes and catels to
Master Prowet and Clement Paston and other , so that my master hath no
goodes wherof he shuld make levy of the forseid somme ; and if the
shireff wold not take this for non answere , that thanne my master wold
he shuld be lettid in Master Prowetes and Clement Paston name .
PASTON,II,346.430.11133

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuirthelesse we spak wyth the shireff this day PASTON,II,346.430.11134

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lete hym vndirstand the causes aforeseid , PASTON,II,346.430.11135

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he agreid , so that he myght haue suerte` to safe hym harmeles , to
make such retorne as my master or his counsell coud devise .
PASTON,II,346.430.11136

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And because my master wrote by Berney +tat he wold not fynd the shireff
no suerte` , we wold not apoynt wyth hym in +tat wise .
PASTON,II,346.430.11137

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so we toke avise of Thomas Grene , PASTON,II,346.430.11138

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_430:M4:1463?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and by-cause the vndirshiref <P_II,347> shall be on Monday at Hygham by
Bastewyk brigge , he and we thought that it was best that Master Prowet
shuld mete wyth the shireff there and require and charge hym that by
colour of the forseid fieri facias that he make no levy of any goodes
and catels of the seid Master Prowettes and Clement Pastons ayens the
seid John Pastons , letyng hym wete that such goodes as the seid Paston
had be now the seid Prowettes and Clement Pastons by vertu of a dede of
gift mad to hem almost ij yere agoo ; and if the shireff woll be besy
aftir +tat to take any catell +tat he be lettid in Master Prowettes
name and Clement Pastons by Daubeney and other , whech besines of the
shireff shall be on Tuisday or Wednesday , and as we vndirstand at
Heylesdon . Wherfore ye must send thedir Daubeney wyth Pecok , and the
may gete hym here more felaship by the avise of Master Ser John Paston
and James Gresham . PASTON,II,347.430.11139

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FS_JWYKES> <L_PASTON_431> <A_JOHN_WYKES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,347>

{ED:720._FROM_JOHN_WYKES_1465,_7_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to my Maystres Margaret Paston $be thys lettere delyueryd in
hast , &c . </font> PASTON,II,347.431.11140

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wyrshypfull maystres , I recomaund me vn-to youre gode
maystresshyp . PASTON,II,347.431.11141

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it you to wyte that my mayster youre hosbond , my maystres youre
modere , my maystere Ser John , Mayster Wyllyam , Mayster Clement , and
all there men were in gode helth when thys lettere was wryten , thankyd
be Jesu ; PASTON,II,347.431.11142

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and also there maters be in a gode way , PASTON,II,347.431.11143

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for my lord Chaunselere ys there syngelere gode lord in thys matere at
thys tyme , PASTON,II,347.431.11144

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and that it provyth , PASTON,II,347.431.11145

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he was yester-day in the Eschekere PASTON,II,347.431.11146

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there he had a-foren hym all the juges , all the barons of the
Eschekere , and all the shargentys , PASTON,II,347.431.11147

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there argued where that the barons of the Escheker shold a-ward any
such comyssyon or not ; PASTON,II,347.431.11148

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and vppon that the seyd comyssyon shall be broght vppon Fryday into the
Chaunsere` , and there to be provyd where it be lafull or not , &c .
PASTON,II,347.431.11149

<P_II,348>

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , and yt please {TEXT:it} you to gyve Dabeney knowlych that there
ys jugement gyven vppon the condempnacion a-yenst Hall , that he
claymed fore hys bond man , and the jugement ys gyven a-yenst Dabeney ,
Richard Call , and Thomas Bon , and ther ys comen ovte proces for to
take there bodys thys same day ; PASTON,II,348.431.11150

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and yf thay or any of them be taken thay shall neuer gon ovte of prison
on-to the tyme that thay haue satesfyed the party of viij=xx= marc. ,
PASTON,II,348.431.11151

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ther-fore lete them be ware , &c . PASTON,II,348.431.11152

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trynyte` haue you in hys kypyng . PASTON,II,348.431.11153

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_431:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wryten at London vppon Thursday next aftere the Purificacion of Oure
Lady , &c . By youre seruaunt John Wykys PASTON,II,348.431.11154

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_T_WCOTYNG> <L_PASTON_432> <A_WILLIAM_COTYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,348>

{ED:721._FROM_WILLIAM_COTYNG_1460-5,_31_JULY}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To his right reuerent and worshipfull Maistres Margaret Paston .
</font> PASTON,II,348.432.11155

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Reuerent and my right worshipful maistres , I recomaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,348.432.11156

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please it yow to wete +tat I haue receyved this day of Simond Miller ,
your fermour at Tichewell , ix li. ij d. for midsomer payment last
passed , whiche I sende to yow bi Rogier , seruaunt with +te parson of
Thorp , as ye comaunded me bi +te seid Rogier ; besechyng yow to haue
an acquitaunce +terof bi +te seid Rogier . PASTON,II,348.432.11157

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye shulde now haue had x li. , PASTON,II,348.432.11158

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but +te seid Symond hath paied to +te fyndyng of a man to +te Kyng for
+te toun of Tichewell v s. , PASTON,II,348.432.11159

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ne had I ne be ye shulde haue payed a marke .
PASTON,II,348.432.11160

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath payed also for rente vj s. viij d . PASTON,II,348.432.11161

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He hath paied for other costes atte shreves turne and atte hundred for
+te seid maner xviij d. , PASTON,II,348.432.11162

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he kepith stille vj s. viij d. for his gowne , whiche he is wont to
take of this payment . PASTON,II,348.432.11163

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for reparacion , +tat is now do PASTON,II,348.432.11164

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shall be do after hervest . PASTON,II,348.432.11165

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He shall exe his alouaunce at his nexte payment , whiche shall be at
Candilmesse nexte comyng . PASTON,II,348.432.11166

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your reparacion shall not be moche , PASTON,II,348.432.11167

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I do it as husbondly as I wolde for my-self PASTON,II,348.432.11168

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shall take as good heed therto as I wolde for myn owne ,
PASTON,II,348.432.11169

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so is my parte to do . PASTON,II,348.432.11170

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As for your lynyng clothe , my brother is yet beyonde +te see .
PASTON,II,348.432.11171

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I loke after <P_II,349> hym every day . PASTON,II,349.432.11172

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hope he shall spede yow as ye shall be pleased .
PASTON,II,349.432.11173

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ther $js come noon to selle in oure cuntre` sithe I was with yow .
PASTON,II,349.432.11174

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I beseche yow of this acquitaunce and of this bagge ,
PASTON,II,349.432.11175

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Oure Lord sende me good tydyngges of my most speciall maister your
husbond and yow and youres , PASTON,II,349.432.11176

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
amen . PASTON,II,349.432.11177

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Fro Brankastere +te last day of Julij . PASTON,II,349.432.11178

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What ye will comaund me ye shall finde it redy to my powier .
PASTON,II,349.432.11179

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_432:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre bedeman W. Cotyng PASTON,II,349.432.11180

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FS_JDAUBENEY> <L_PASTON_433> <A_JOHN_DAUBENEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,349>

{ED:722._FROM_JOHN_DAUBENEY_1465,_PROBABLY_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my Mestresse Margaret Paston by thys letter dd . </font>
PASTON,II,349.433.11181

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please your good mastreschep to have knowlage that as thys day was
Master Stevyn of Norwich at Caster , and ther he told me he was
yesterday at Hoxhon wyth +te Byschop of Norwych .
PASTON,II,349.433.11182

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And ther he seythe +tat ther is gret labore mad be Master Phylyp and be
+te baly of Cossey ; in so moche ther is mad a comission on-to Master
John Salet and Master Robert Ipyswell for an jnquerry that +te parson
+tat my master mad last at Drayton ys deed , as they sey , and jn so
moche they purpose to put in +te parson of Felthorp , as he hard sey ,
for +te Duk of Suffolk ; PASTON,II,349.433.11183

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thes he thynkyth it ware a gret vrt to my master tytyll .
PASTON,II,349.433.11184

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And also another jnquerry howe ys patorn of +te seyd chyrche ,
PASTON,II,349.433.11185

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thys is leke to come in revelicion but yf ther be gret labore mad
to-morowe be tymys and +tat ye have a man at Hoxhon in all hast for a
newe comicion ; PASTON,II,349.433.11186

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and in +tat commysion Master Stevyn wold +tat ye shuld have Master John
Salet , Master Symond Thornaham , Master Nicholl Stanton , and that it
be mad be +te avice of Master Jon Bulman , PASTON,II,349.433.11187

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he told Master Stevyn he wold do for you +tat he may , in so moche
Master Stevyn hathe promysyd hym a nobyll . PASTON,II,349.433.11188

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so the seyd Master Stevyn wold ye shuld send hym a letter and late
<P_II,350> hym have knolage +tat Master Stevyn shall reward hym +tat he
shall hold hym pleasyd . PASTON,II,350.433.11189

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , a told me +tat a sent a letter to Ser Will Maryys of all +tis
mater yesterday . PASTON,II,350.433.11190

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Weder ye have it or not he can not sey , PASTON,II,350.433.11191

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but in noo wyse +tat ye dyskure not Master Stevyn ,
PASTON,II,350.433.11192

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he wold not for an c li. +tat it ware knowe +tat ye knewe ther-of
by hym , PASTON,II,350.433.11193

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he seythe gold gothe gret plenty at Hoxhon on ther part .
PASTON,II,350.433.11194

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And yf it be labord be tymys it may be remevyd to Caunterbury .
PASTON,II,350.433.11195

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_433:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also yet it is good to send to Norwich to +te seyd Ser Will for +te
letter ar +te massanger goth , &c . PASTON,II,350.433.11196

<Q_PAS_A_1460S_T_JHEVENINGHAM> <L_PASTON_434> <A_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1577> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,350>

{ED:723._FROM_SIR_JOHN_HEVENINGHAM_NOT_AFTER_1466,_7_MAY}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To myn ryght worchipfull cosyn Margarete Paston be +tis letter
deliuered . </font> PASTON,II,350.434.11197

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchippffull and welbeloued cosyn , I comaunde me to you as
herteli as I can , thankyng you off your goode chere +te last tyme I
was with you . PASTON,II,350.434.11198

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , worchippffull cosyn , please yt you to calle vn-to youre
remembrauns I wrote vn-to you for myn cosyn Anneys Loveday to haue ben
in your seruice , PASTON,II,350.434.11199

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I reseyued from you a letter that youre wyll was goode but durst
not to in-to +te tyme ye hadde spoke with myn cosyn youre husbonde .
PASTON,II,350.434.11200

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worchippffull cosyn , I haue labored for hire in othir placez ,
PASTON,II,350.434.11201

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I can not haue myn entent as yit ; wherffor , yff that hit please
you to haue hyre with you to in-to +te tyme that a mastris may be
purveyed for hire , I pray you ther-off , PASTON,II,350.434.11202

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shal contente you for hire boorde that ye shal be wel pleased .
PASTON,II,350.434.11203

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For , cosyn , and I hadde a wyff I wolde not care for hire ,
PASTON,II,350.434.11204

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there as she is she is not well at hire ease ,
PASTON,II,350.434.11205

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for she is at Robert Lethum . PASTON,II,350.434.11206

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therffor I pray you herteli that ye wyll tendre this myn writyng ,
PASTON,II,350.434.11207

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I beseche you that in cas be that ye wyll fulffylle hit that ye wel
sende myn cosyn Will Staunton for hire , PASTON,II,350.434.11208

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I shal kepe you trewe promys as I haue be-fore wretyn .
PASTON,II,350.434.11209

<P_II,351>

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And I beseche Almyghti Jesu preserue you . PASTON,II,351.434.11210

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretyn at Heuenyngham on +te vij day of May , &c .
PASTON,II,351.434.11211

AUTHOR:JOHN_HEVENINGHAM:MALE:_:1577:_
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_434:M4:1460S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Youre oune cosyn John Heuenyngham , Knyght PASTON,II,351.434.11212

<Q_PAS_A_1466?_TC_ECLERE> <L_PASTON_435> <A_ELIZABETH_CLERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_FRIEND>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,351>

{ED:724._FROM_ELISABETH_CLERE_1466_OR_SOON_AFTER}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my worschepfull cosyn Margarete Paston be this delyuered .
</font> PASTON,II,351.435.11213

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Worchepful cosyn , I comaunde $me to you , desiryng to here of your
hele and hertes ease , +te wheche I beseche God sende you .
PASTON,II,351.435.11214

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
And as for my litel cosyn your sone is a faire childe and a mery ,
blissed be God . PASTON,II,351.435.11215

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , +te cause of my writyng at this tyme is for certeyn evidences
of Frethorp +tat I delyuered my cosyn your husbonde for to a mad awarde
betwix Rammesbury and me , and j boke of papeer of +te customs of
Ormesby , and j rolle called domysday and other certeyn evidences
longyng to +te seide maner , and j dede of a tayle of Reynthorp +te
whiche I delyuerid hym , and certeyn evidences of Cleydon and of Burgh
. PASTON,II,351.435.11216

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
And also , cosyn , your faderlawe was of councell bothe-1 with my moder
and my moderlawe , wherfore I sopose +ter myght be lefte som evidences
or copies of evidences of my liflode , +tat is to seye Tacolneston ,
Therston , Reynthorp , Rusteynes in Wymondham , Kesewik , and $Stratton
, with hym . Wherfore , cosyn , I beseche you hertily +tat whanne ye
loke among your evidences +tat ye wolde ley hem a-parte for me , as my
very truste is +tat ye $will , PASTON,II,351.435.11217

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
for I here sey +tat ye haue right weell and conciensly delyuered
certeyn persones +te evidences longyng to hem PASTON,II,351.435.11218

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and I $truste veryly ye wil +te same to me . PASTON,II,351.435.11219

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , +ter cam a man fro Norwiche to me PASTON,II,351.435.11220

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and fonde be +te weye certeyn rolles PASTON,II,351.435.11221

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
and toke $hem <em> me ... </em> e long to you and not to me ; wherfore
I sende hem you be +te bryngger of +tis bille . PASTON,II,351.435.11222

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Nomore to you at +tis tyme , but +te Holy Trinite` haue you in his
blissed kepyng . PASTON,II,351.435.11223

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_CLERE:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:FRIEND:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_435:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND_CODE_METADATA
Be your cosyn E. Clere PASTON,II,351.435.11224

<Q_PAS_A_1466?_T_JRUSSE> <L_PASTON_436> <A_JOHN_RUSSE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,352>

{ED:725._FROM_JOHN_RUSSE_1466_OR_SOON_AFTER}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the wurshypfull and my right honourabyll Maistresse Marget
Paston . </font> PASTON,II,352.436.11225

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right wurshipfull and myn right honourabil and good maistresse , I
recomaund me to you in my most humble wyse , besekyng youre
maistresshyp to take no dyspleasure of the longe forberyng of youre
mony , whiche is ix li. xvj s. viij d. now . PASTON,II,352.436.11226

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be my trouthe , Maistyr Fen had of me 1 marke at hyse beyng here fore
custum , wherof a gret part is owyng me tyl I may be leysere gathere it
vp . PASTON,II,352.436.11227

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I thynke of euery day a wyke tyl ye be content ,
PASTON,II,352.436.11228

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I thanke God I owe not al the world so myche as I do you .
PASTON,II,352.436.11229

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
In as goodly haste as {in}_P I can youre maistresship shal haue it ,
with euyr my seruise and preyere , PASTON,II,352.436.11230

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore ye do a meritory dede . PASTON,II,352.436.11231

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It hathe sauyd my pore honeste` and gretly auayled me , where as if it
had leyn in youre coferys , as I doute not a m=l= li. more dothe , no
profit shuld haue growe to ony man . PASTON,II,352.436.11232

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It is a meritory dede to helpe them that mene trewly , whiche for Godys
sake , maistresse , consedre . PASTON,II,352.436.11233

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I truste I am of that substans that what so euyr caswelte` fortunyd
youre maistresship shuld not lese on peny of youre dute` .
PASTON,II,352.436.11234

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Euery oure may be dystreynid of myn the value of c marke in shyppis and
literys , PASTON,II,352.436.11235

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and owe not but to you c s. , I dare afferme . PASTON,II,352.436.11236

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also , maystrese , ye haue an $obligacion of me of xl li. , a byll of
xx li. , and a bil of xx li. , and a byll of x li .
PASTON,II,352.436.11237

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Fore Godys sake , maistresse , spare me fore a tyme , the rathere fore
the affeccion that my maistyr had to me , whos soule Jesu assoyle .
PASTON,II,352.436.11238

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Hyse maistirshyp grauntyd me many tymez to haue lent me of the dedys
goodys xl li. , to haue payd hym ageyn in v yeere ,
PASTON,II,352.436.11239

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so I doute not but I shuld haue had if hyse maistyrshyp had leuyd .
PASTON,II,352.436.11240

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I lost a gret losse of hese departyng ; PASTON,II,352.436.11241

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
fore hyse sake , maystresse , shewe me the more fauour .
PASTON,II,352.436.11242

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I intende not to debarre you of oon peny , so Jesu helpe me , but in as
goodly haste as {in}_P I can to contente you . PASTON,II,352.436.11243

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be my trouthe , at thys season I haue not in my pocession x marke ,
whiche is right litil what casewelte` that euyr fortune .
PASTON,II,352.436.11244

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I am deseyuid of many men ; PASTON,II,352.436.11245

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
be my trouthe there is owyng me in thys town xl marke of iij yeere
passyd , that thow I shuld go to preson I knowe not to haue xx s. of
ony of hem . PASTON,II,352.436.11246

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right wurshypfull and my right honourabill maistresse , I beseke
Almyghti Jesu euyr preserue you from aduersite` .
PASTON,II,352.436.11247

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youre bedeman and seruaunt John Russe PASTON,II,352.436.11248

<P_II,353>

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Maistresse , for the seruise that to my pore powyr I aught my maistyr
youre husbonde I am the werse by xx li. and more syluire .
PASTON,II,353.436.11249

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For Godys sake therfore , maistresse , yit fauour me a season .
PASTON,II,353.436.11250

AUTHOR:JOHN_RUSSE:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_436:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I aske not ellys . PASTON,II,353.436.11251

<Q_PAS_A_1472?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_437> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,356>

{ED:728._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PROBABLY_1472,_27_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght reuerent and worshipffull my Mastres Margaret
Paston in haste . </font> PASTON,II,356.437.11252

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it you to wete that I haue receyued your letter , wherin I
conceyve ye wolde vndrestonde how I do with the sale of Sporle wode .
PASTON,II,356.437.11253

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is so that I haue be-gonne to felle asshe at the townesende for to
sette the contre` on werke , PASTON,II,356.437.11254

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and be that I shall vndrestonde how the remnaunt wol doo .
PASTON,II,356.437.11255

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue sette suche a classe be-fore here jen ther that they are madde
vpon it , so that I truste be Ester to make of money , what with the
barke and with the asshe at the leeste l marke for to retayle the wode
oure-selfe , and be Cristemas next after that other l marke , and so
yerely l marke at Cristemesse as longe as the wode lasteth , to the
some that I tolde you and I truste more ; PASTON,II,356.437.11256

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and to this I durste be bounde . PASTON,II,356.437.11257

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles I am a-bowte to selle it all a <P_II,357> grete and to
brynge it to all moste {TEXT:to} as goode proffe as thowe we retayled
it oure-silffe , PASTON,II,357.437.11258

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it is so that ther is a man of Carbroke , they calle hym Saunders ,
PASTON,II,357.437.11259

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I may haue of hym for all the wode and barke that is in Sporle xj=xx=
marke , to paye at suche dayes a-fore reherseyd , we to bere the costes
of the fense and of the tithe . PASTON,II,357.437.11260

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But we are not throw yet , PASTON,II,357.437.11261

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
nor nought shal be tille I haue worde from you a-yene , weche I muste
haue be Sonday come sevenyte at the fertheste , PASTON,II,357.437.11262

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for on the Wednesdaye nexte $after +tat we shal mete a-yene at Sporle .
Wherfore I beseche you sende me your avice how ye thynke herein ,
PASTON,II,357.437.11263

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I shal doo that in me is , be Godes grace . PASTON,II,357.437.11264

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
If I can do better with hym I shall ; PASTON,II,357.437.11265

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
it shal be harde werke but if I haunse hym somwhat ,
PASTON,II,357.437.11266

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ther is moche money be-twix vs . PASTON,II,357.437.11267

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And therfore spare not to sende my mastre Ser John worde to take suche
dayes of payment as is a-bove wreten , PASTON,II,357.437.11268

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} performed what wey som-euer we take ,
be Godes grace . PASTON,II,357.437.11269

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , mastres , as for your write , ye may not haue hym tille after
Cristemas , PASTON,II,357.437.11270

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he had taken an howse to make while I was with you .
PASTON,II,357.437.11271

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} this iij wekes yet or then he make an ende ,
&c . PASTON,II,357.437.11272

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I mette with Robert at Heythe of Matelaske at Norwiche when I
come from you . PASTON,II,357.437.11273

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I felle on hande with hym for Matelaske Kerre ; PASTON,II,357.437.11274

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I myght haue had of hym for that vij marke and xx d .
PASTON,II,357.437.11275

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Dele nogh as ye thynke . PASTON,II,357.437.11276

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , as for money of the fermour of Sporle , he telles me he is
bounde to Tounesende to pay hym at this Candelmesse ,
PASTON,II,357.437.11277

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seythe if he may be discharged a-yenst hym your money $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} redy at his daye , be Godes grace , who haue you in his
blissed kepyng . PASTON,II,357.437.11278

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Sporle the Friday next after Seint Edmund the Kynge .
PASTON,II,357.437.11279

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_437:M4:1472?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt R. Calle PASTON,II,357.437.11280

<Q_PAS_A_1473?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_438> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,357>

{ED:729._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_PERHAPS_1473,_ABOUT_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_MARGARET_PASTON}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your mastresship to witte +tat I sende you a boxe with
evidence of Baktons londes , weche plesith it you to delyuer to my
mastre Ser John so <P_II,358> +tat I may haue my money that is be-hynde
. PASTON,II,358.438.11281

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for Sporle , I sende you an endenture of the bercars and iij
obligacions , eche of v marke . PASTON,II,358.438.11282

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for any endenture of the wode sale , I made non , but a noote
breefely of the effecte wech I sende you , as I tolde my mastre at
Cristemas , PASTON,II,358.438.11283

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tat tyme he seide to me he was the better plesid
PASTON,II,358.438.11284

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I ded no more therto ; PASTON,II,358.438.11285

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and an obligacion of c li . weche they be bounde to hym to performe
ther comnauntes , weche remayneth in the handes of the veker of Sporle
. PASTON,II,358.438.11286

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I send you also ij billes of the parcelles of the wode sale , bothe
the wynter sale and the somer sale , wherof the veker of Sporle and
William Halman haue the other parties of them , as he comaunded
hym-selfe at the be-gynnyng . PASTON,II,358.438.11287

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And lete my countrelle doo what hym liste , PASTON,II,358.438.11288

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I fynd hym a trewe man ; PASTON,II,358.438.11289

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
he dothe as he hath reported +tat he shuld go on my harond ,
PASTON,II,358.438.11290

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I vndrestond from them he hath do . PASTON,II,358.438.11291

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But thow I haue lost a frende of hym in +tat quarter I haue mo frendes
in +tat contre` $then hee , &c . PASTON,II,358.438.11292

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Mastres , it were goode to remembre your stuffe of heryng nough this
fisshyng tyme . PASTON,II,358.438.11293

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue goten me a frende in Lestoft to helpe to purvey me of an vij or
viij barell , and shal not stonde me vpon a-boue vj s. viij d. a barell
so +tat he may haue money nough in the begynnyng .
PASTON,II,358.438.11294

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye shal do more nough with xl s. then ye $shall $do {TEXT:shaldo} at
Cristemes with v marke . PASTON,II,358.438.11295

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The fisshyng at Yermouth wol not be so goode as it $will $be
{TEXT:wolbe} at Leystoft , PASTON,II,358.438.11296

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for the haven wol not prove yette , &c . PASTON,II,358.438.11297

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty God kepe you . PASTON,II,358.438.11298

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:MARGARET_PASTON[N.MAUTBY]:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:PASTON_438:M4:1473?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wrete this daye . Be your seruaunt R. C. PASTON,II,358.438.11299

<Q_PAS_A_1461_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_439> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,369>

{ED:737._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1461,_LATE_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worschipfull ser and mastre , John Paston junior ,
esquyer . </font> PASTON,II,369.439.11300

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worschipfull ser , I recomaunde me vnto your mastreschip ,
certifiyng you that Jenney and Yeluerton hathe certified vup in-to the
Kynges Benche $jnssurecions $and congregacions a-yenste me , whervpon
they haue sente to the scheryff a writte chargyng hym in peyne of c li.
to brynge me in-to the Kynges Benche the morwe aftre Sein Marteyn .
PASTON,II,369.439.11301

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And this daye the seide Jenney hathe sent doune to the scheryff
an-other writte called an habeas corpus , retournable crastino
Annemarum , weche $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} on Tuesday next comyng ,
be-cauce they were in dought and in greete feere that I schulde haue
ben aquytte of the jnditement of fellony now at this gayle delyuerye .
PASTON,II,369.439.11302

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And also my maistre hathe sente an-other writte for me , retournable at
the seide crastino Animarum , PASTON,II,369.439.11303

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so I am like to ride to London warde to-morwe .
PASTON,II,369.439.11304

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And the scheryff wold make me to fynde suerte` that I schulde appere in
the Kynges Benche the seide daye , PASTON,II,369.439.11305

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and yet that notwithstandyng he wolde send me vp with strengthe of men
as a presoner ; PASTON,II,369.439.11306

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if any thyng schall cauce me that I goo not vp to London it $shall
$be {TEXT:schalbe} be-cauce I woll fynde no suerte` ,
PASTON,II,369.439.11307

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for in cas he wold haue suffred me to haue gon vp be my-selfe at myn
owne coste I wolde haue founde hym suertee . PASTON,II,369.439.11308

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so at the makyng of this bille we were not fully condesended hough
we schulde doo . PASTON,II,369.439.11309

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
My mastre is in goode hele , blissed be Godd , PASTON,II,369.439.11310

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and dothe and schall doo <P_II,370> ryght weele in alle hes maters .
PASTON,II,370.439.11311

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ther is an on-gracios fellaschip of hem and a fals .
PASTON,II,370.439.11312

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
They haue sent for FitzRaff and Schipdam be a citacion for the proffe
of the testament , PASTON,II,370.439.11313

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and alle is but for to delay it . PASTON,II,370.439.11314

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Yet it were weele done ye rode ouer to FitzRaff and felte hes
$disposicion how he woll be disposed , and in like wice with Schipdam ,
PASTON,II,370.439.11315

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I haue spoken with hem of that matre in cas that any sitacion come
doun for hem how they wolde be disposed , PASTON,II,370.439.11316

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I haue founde the toon straunchely disposed .
PASTON,II,370.439.11317

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
God sende vs a goode scheryf thys yere , PASTON,II,370.439.11318

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thanne wee schalle do weele j-nough , be the grace of God .
PASTON,II,370.439.11319

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , your man tolde me that ye desired to knowe the demenyng at
Cotton of the tenauntes and other . PASTON,II,370.439.11320

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I lete you wete the moste parte of alle the tenauntes haue bene here
with me for to see me , PASTON,II,370.439.11321

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and they haue tolde me all the demenyng as it is vndrewrete .
PASTON,II,370.439.11322

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Furst , as for the money that they receyued there , it drwe vpon a
xxiiij=ti= li. and more siluer , PASTON,II,370.439.11323

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for the tenauntes myght not cheese but they moste nedes paye ,
PASTON,II,370.439.11324

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for they distreyned on my lordes of Suffolk fee , my lordes of Norwich
fee , and on all men grounde so that they myght not haue her catell in
reste , weche cauced hem to paye her money . PASTON,II,370.439.11325

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I knowe weele j-nough who payed and wo paied not .
PASTON,II,370.439.11326

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
All the grete fermours haue payed . PASTON,II,370.439.11327

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the kepyng of the place , ther be therin iiij men , and on
of Debenham men called Sokelyng and hes wyff , and on Mannyng a tenaunt
, a fals knave . PASTON,II,370.439.11328

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And they haue enforced them as stronke as they kan ,
PASTON,II,370.439.11329

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and they haue broken doune the brigge PASTON,II,370.439.11330

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and haue leide a planke over . PASTON,II,370.439.11331

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
In cas that ye go theder ye may not come at Dale is howce in no waie ,
PASTON,II,370.439.11332

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he haue had meche trowble for my mastre and for me ;
PASTON,II,370.439.11333

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but and ye wolde gete my lordes meane and pulle the knaves out be the
heede it were wele done . PASTON,II,370.439.11334

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I purpose me to come homwarde that same wey . PASTON,II,370.439.11335

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I lete yow witte that the gayle delyverye holdeth not this daye
, and alle is doone be-cauce of mee . PASTON,II,370.439.11336

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Jenney wolde not lete the clerke of peas come hether this daye for
feere that I schulde haue ben aquytte of the felonye ;
PASTON,II,370.439.11337

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for in trouthe and tho it had holden I had founde the meane for to haue
ben quytte , PASTON,II,370.439.11338

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I whas through with the scheryf and the panel made aftre myn avice
. PASTON,II,370.439.11339

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But though the gayle delyuerye had holden I cowde not haue ben delyuerd
be-cauce of thes writtes that be come downe . PASTON,II,370.439.11340

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the scheryff hathe a grete losse that this daye holdethe not ,
PASTON,II,370.439.11341

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ther schulde haue ben quytte xl men this daye .
PASTON,II,370.439.11342

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the scheryff tolde me that my maistre tolde hym that I whas
assent to my takyng at Scoolys , weche was to me ryght greete hevynes
and discomforture nough in my trouble . PASTON,II,370.439.11343

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And God knoweth it was never my wylle ner myn entent , as I mot be
saved at the dredful daye of Dome , PASTON,II,370.439.11344

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ther is no man so sore hurte as I am be the takyng , bothe in losse
and <P_II,371> also in reprefe of myn owne persone and of my frendes ,
withoute that my mastre be my goode maistre , as I truste he woll be or
ell I am disseyved . PASTON,II,371.439.11345

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He hathe my trewe seruyce and schal haue whylle that I leve , what so
ever his mastreschip do to me ; PASTON,II,371.439.11346

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I can thynke he hathe ben enformed by myn elmyes that wold make hym
$displesed with me and to be myn evy mastre , PASTON,II,371.439.11347

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but dissimilacion dothe moche harme , &c . PASTON,II,371.439.11348

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I reporte me , &c . PASTON,II,371.439.11349

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
No more to you at this tyme , but Jesu kepe you and send you as moche
fortune and grace as I wolde ye had , &c . PASTON,II,371.439.11350

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I beseche $you to be my goode mastre as ye haue be ,
PASTON,II,371.439.11351

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I never deserved nor wol $decerve the contrary .
PASTON,II,371.439.11352

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:19
LETTER:PASTON_439:M4:1461:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt Richard Calle , presoner PASTON,II,371.439.11353

<Q_PAS_A_1462_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_440> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,371>

{ED:738._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1462,_ABOUT_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my Maistre John Paston $the yonger be this delyuerd . </font>
PASTON,II,371.440.11354

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , I haue receyved your lettre , wherin I vndrestand that my
maistre desirid that my maistre your $brother myght haue the gidyng and
governaunce of the <font> Barge of Yermouthe </font> .
PASTON,II,371.440.11355

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As to that , and men of Yermouthe had knowen my maistre entend a
fornyght a-goo he had ben swer of it , PASTON,II,371.440.11356

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but nough it is so that Debenham hathe a comyscion of the Kyng
expressed oonly for that schip named in hes comyscion , and he hathe
ben here at Yermouthe and spoken with the balyffes and with the owners
of the seide schip , and takyn suche a direccion that they may graunted
it no man but hym . PASTON,II,371.440.11357

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And moreouer he hathe endented with the owners of the schip what daye
it $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} redy as wele vetaylled as manned ,
PASTON,II,371.440.11358

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and also he hathe brought downe letters from my lord Tresorer to all
priours and gentlemen in this contre` to helpe hym and assiste hym to
vetayle and manne the seide schip , PASTON,II,371.440.11359

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hes man is here dayle` PASTON,II,371.440.11360

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and gothe abought PASTON,II,371.440.11361

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and gathereth whete , malt , money , and what so euer any man woll geve
, &c . PASTON,II,371.440.11362

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Blissed Trinyte` preserue you . PASTON,II,371.440.11363

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Castre the Friday next aftre I receyued your lettre .
PASTON,II,371.440.11364

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , it is talked here that my maistre your brother and Debenham
<P_II,372> were at wordes at London and that Debenham schuld haue
streken hym had nought Howard a beene , &c. , wherof I am ryght sory ,
&c . PASTON,II,372.440.11365

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuerthelesse I truste to God all schal be weele .
PASTON,II,372.440.11366

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:20
LETTER:PASTON_440:M4:1462:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your seruaunt Richard Calle PASTON,II,372.440.11367

<Q_PAS_C_1463_T_ALANGLEY> <L_PASTON_441> <A_NAME_UNKNOWN_13>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,372>

{ED:739._FROM_THE_ABBOT_OF_LANGLEY_1463,_4_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To +te ryght worcheppful Sere John Pastoon , knyght , be +tis
delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,372.441.11368

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght worchepful sere and tendyrly belouyd in Oure Lorde God , I comend
me to you , sendyng you knowyng +tat I dede youre erand to my bro+ter
the persoon of Blofeeld on Wednysdaye was seuenyght after +te
vndyrstandyng +tat I had of you and from you be +tis bryngere , whech
man I felte ryght wele and fauorabelye dysposyd to you ward , and more
fauorable wole be +tan to ony o+ter jentylman levand , the wylle of +te
dede performyd and his conscyens sauyd ; and more +tinges seyd
fauorabely for yow , which I entytelyd in a scrowe to a certyfyed to
your seruaunt Calle yf he had come as ye sent me woord he xuld a do ,
and xuld as ye behestyd me a browte me oure ferme for Heylesdon ; which
not don causeth me to wryte , prayng your jantylnesse +tat I send no
more +terfore , PASTON,II,372.441.11369

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for it is vnpayed for +te +geere a-fore the Halwemesse +tat my mayster
Fastolff deyed , and for the same +gere +tat he deyed in , and sythen
for ij +gere , and v s. vnpayed of a +gere , PASTON,II,372.441.11370

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and come Myhelmesse nexte xal be a no+tere +gere vnpayed .
PASTON,II,372.441.11371

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Tus is iiij +gere vnpayed and v s. , PASTON,II,372.441.11372

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and at Myhelmesse next xal be v +gere and v s . PASTON,II,372.441.11373

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
This +tus kepte from Holy Chirche +tat is Holy Chirchez good may not be
withoute grete parelle of soule ; PASTON,II,372.441.11374

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
where +te parelle is God knoweth . PASTON,II,372.441.11375

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray God amend it , and geve hem grace +tat haue his goodez so to
dyspose them +tat +tei and +te dede both may be oute of parelle .
PASTON,II,372.441.11376

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And the Trynyte` haue you in his mercyful kepyng .
PASTON,II,372.441.11377

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:21
LETTER:PASTON_441:M4:1463:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Langle` on Soneday at evyn late next after Seynt Johns Daye
Decollacion . Be your welewylland Abbot of Langeleye
PASTON,II,372.441.11378

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_442> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,373>

{ED:740._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1465,_15_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght reuerent and worchipffull master , Ser John Paston ,
knyght . </font> PASTON,II,373.442.11379

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your gode masterschip to wete that as for the examynacion of
Master Robert Popy , his examinacion was wreten in a longe bille of
parchemyn accordyng to the deposicion in the Spirituall Coorte .
PASTON,II,373.442.11380

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And Master Robert come in-to the Chauncery PASTON,II,373.442.11381

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and was sworne +tat all +tat was wreten in the seide bille was trewe ,
PASTON,II,373.442.11382

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so delyuerd the same bille to the Mastre of the Rolles ,
PASTON,II,373.442.11383

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he bare it forthe with hym in his hande , PASTON,II,373.442.11384

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it was delyuerd hym at the risyng of the Coorte .
PASTON,II,373.442.11385

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Tounesende was by , and I bothe , &c . PASTON,II,373.442.11386

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for delyueryng of money to Dawbeney , I do +tat I may do , and
more thenne I may weele doo PASTON,II,373.442.11387

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I haue put my-selfe in gret daunger for +tat I haue borwyd , &c .
PASTON,II,373.442.11388

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty God spede you in all your maters , &c .
PASTON,II,373.442.11389

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten the Saterday next after Corpus Cristi Daye .
PASTON,II,373.442.11390

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_442:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt R. C. PASTON,II,373.442.11391

<Q_PAS_A_1465_FS_JWYKES> <L_PASTON_443> <A_JOHN_WYKES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,373>

{ED:741._FROM_JOHN_WYKES_1465,_30_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wyrshypfull mayster Ser John Paston be thys letter
delyueryd . </font> PASTON,II,373.443.11392

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please it youre maystershyp to wyte vppon Satourday last Mayster Wyll
Paston and I werre wyth my lord the Byshop of York , and enformyd hys
lordshyp of the entre` that was made at Haylesdon in the Duk of Suffolk
name . PASTON,II,373.443.11393

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And my lord asked of ous whether the c marc. were payd or not ,
PASTON,II,373.443.11394

<P_II,374>

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and we awnswered that it was payd many day a-goon .
PASTON,II,374.443.11395

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And than he sayd , ' I dare swere vppon a boke that the Duchesse of
Suffolk hath no knowlych therof . ' PASTON,II,374.443.11396

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so he comaundyd ous to a-wayte vppon hym , PASTON,II,374.443.11397

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he wold be at London a-yen vppon Tewysday next ;
PASTON,II,374.443.11398

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and soo we haue non awnswere as yet . PASTON,II,374.443.11399

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I haue spoken wyth $Mayster Robert Kent for youre maters ,
PASTON,II,374.443.11400

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and byddeth that ye shold not dowte therof . PASTON,II,374.443.11401

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for the neglygens of youre $wytnes , Mayster Robert sayth it ys
but a jape and shall be no hurt ; PASTON,II,374.443.11402

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the copys therof were delyueryd ore than I cam hom , $from Parkere
ys handys , PASTON,II,374.443.11403

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and that causyd me to spake no word to hym therof .
PASTON,II,374.443.11404

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the Lord Scales sayd at a soper where as he soped wyth-in thys
iiij ny+gtys that he wold ryde hom and entere in ij fayre maners in hys
contray , PASTON,II,374.443.11405

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and desyred Stanhop , that shall wed Gernyngham ys sustere , to ryde
wyth hym . PASTON,II,374.443.11406

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I suppose it be to entere in-to Castere and Cotton , wherfore maketh
gode wach be tyme , PASTON,II,374.443.11407

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it ys mery to plede in possession , &c . PASTON,II,374.443.11408

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I haue send you an vnce of myvers by the berour of thys lettere
, PASTON,II,374.443.11409

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thay cost me iiij s. iiij d . PASTON,II,374.443.11410

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , your gesseron and gauntelettys shall be send hom by the next
caryours , PASTON,II,374.443.11411

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for there be non hyre yete , &c . PASTON,II,374.443.11412

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
No more to you at thys tyme . PASTON,II,374.443.11413

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Holy Trynyte` haue you in hys kypyng . PASTON,II,374.443.11414

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:23
LETTER:PASTON_443:M4:1465:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wryten at London vppon Tewysday next after Seynt Anne . By youre
seruaunt John Wyke PASTON,II,374.443.11415

<Q_PAS_A_1466_FS_JWYKES> <L_PASTON_444> <A_JOHN_WYKES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,374>

{ED:742._FROM_JOHN_WYKES_1466,_17_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to the ryght wyrshypfull maystere Ser John Paston , kny+gt ,
be thys letter delyueryd . </font> PASTON,II,374.444.11416

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wyrshypfull and my especyall gode maystere , I recomaund me vnto
youre gode maystershyp , letyng you wyte that the berour herof told me
that ye had grete mervyll that I send to you no word ne letter of
awnswere of the letters that ye had send to me to London .
PASTON,II,374.444.11417

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for on lettere ye send to <P_II,375> me by Rychard , Playtourys man
, and therof I send you an awnswere in a lettere by a man of the Priour
of Bromholm ; PASTON,II,375.444.11418

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for othere letters there com no more to me but that on .
PASTON,II,375.444.11419

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Maystere Flemmyng lokyth dayly for hys hors ,
PASTON,II,375.444.11420

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and at euery tyme that I mete wyth hym he askyth of me when hys hors
shuld com and when I here any word from you . Wherfore I pray you send
me word in a lettere how he shall be awnswerd , and yf the hors shall
com lette me knowe when ; PASTON,II,375.444.11421

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for and he $had $not {TEXT:hadnot} trustyd thervppon he wold haue
purveyd hym in a nothere place , &c . PASTON,II,375.444.11422

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , John Otere ys not yet payd , PASTON,II,375.444.11423

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but as I suppose it shall not be long to tyll he haue it ,
PASTON,II,375.444.11424

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he hath spoken to my mayster youre fadere a-yen there-fore ;
PASTON,II,375.444.11425

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and as for Gylmyn , he hath not spoken to my mayster as yet , &c .
PASTON,II,375.444.11426

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I truste he $will $be {TEXT:wylbe} youre gode fadere ,
PASTON,II,375.444.11427

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for John Say hath told hym playnly of hys demenyng a-yenst you and told
hym that he had the lasse favour for youre sake , &c .
PASTON,II,375.444.11428

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the Erle of Arundell ys son hath weddyd the Quyne ys sustere .
PASTON,II,375.444.11429

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , the Lord Louell ys son hath weddyd my Lady Fytzhugh ys doghtere
, &c . PASTON,II,375.444.11430

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , Jenney desyryth a trety wyth my mayster ,
PASTON,II,375.444.11431

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and spake to my maystere therof hym-sylf in Westmynster Hall .
PASTON,II,375.444.11432

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , all felaws in the Kyngys hows fareid well
PASTON,II,375.444.11433

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wold haue you there . PASTON,II,375.444.11434

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
No more to you at thys tyme , but the Holy Trynyte` haue you $in kypyng
. PASTON,II,375.444.11435

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wryten at London the Monday next aftere Seynt Volentyn .
PASTON,II,375.444.11436

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24
LETTER:PASTON_444:M4:1466:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Youre seruant John Wykys PASTON,II,375.444.11437

<Q_PAS_C_1466?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_445> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,375>

{ED:743._JOHN_DE_VERE,_THIRTEENTH_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_1466,_31
_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To our hertly welbilouyd John Paston , knyght . </font>
PASTON,II,375.445.11438

<P_II,376>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right hertly welbilouyd , I grete you wele . PASTON,II,376.445.11439

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where Sir John Howard , knyght , Sir Gilberde Debenham , knyght ,
gederith grete feloship of men , purposyng on Monday next commyng to
take stresses of the Lady Roos , and I deme that they vndre the coloure
of the same entende to set on Coton and to gete it if they may , I
therfor councelle you to sende downe a certeine of your men or elles
come your-silfe for the save-garde of the said Coton . Also +tat ye
yeve credence vn-to the brynger herof . PASTON,II,376.445.11440

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lorde kepe you . PASTON,II,376.445.11441

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writyn at +te lodge in Lauenham the last day of Juyll .
PASTON,II,376.445.11442

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:23?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_445:M4:1466?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,376.445.11443

<Q_PAS_A_1466?_FS_JGLOYS> <L_PASTON_446> <A_JAMES_GLOYS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,376>

{ED:744._FROM_JAMES_GLOYS_PROBABLY_1466,_10_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To his right reuerent and wurchipfull ser and good mayster , Ser
John Paston , knyght , be +tis deliuered . </font>
PASTON,II,376.446.11444

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Right reuerent and wurchepfull ser and my good mayster , I recomaund me
to your good maystershep . PASTON,II,376.446.11445

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Pleas it you to wete that I was at Snaylwell on $Sonday last past ,
PASTON,II,376.446.11446

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it fortuned so that the most part of your tenauntes wern ought ,
summe at Caunterbery and summe at othere places at mariages ,
PASTON,II,376.446.11447

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and of them +tat wern at home I asked mony in your name .
PASTON,II,376.446.11448

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And thei seid that whan ye were there last ye govyn them day till
Candilmesse , so that thei myght malt there corn and brynge it to the
best preffe ; where-fore I cowde gete no mony , though I wuld haue
takyn all there catell with-ought thei had be otherewyse warned be-fore
. PASTON,II,376.446.11449

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
There-fore I haue warned hem that thei shuld make redy mony ageyn the
Tuesday next be-fore Sent Edmond the Kyng , PASTON,II,376.446.11450

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for than shuld Richard Calle be <P_II,377> with them and I bothyn , if
ye wuld , to receyve it and to take a direccion for the ferme and to
set in a fermour , PASTON,II,377.446.11451

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for there is a thrifty man wuld haue it +tat dwellith be-syde Bery ,
PASTON,II,377.446.11452

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he shall be there the same day to haue an answere there-of and to
take it if so be $that ye wull lete hym haue it worth the mony and +tat
he may leve +teron . PASTON,II,377.446.11453

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
All the town seth +tat it hath vn-don the fermour that had it last ;
PASTON,II,377.446.11454

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
therfore tell Calle how ye wull do in the matere
PASTON,II,377.446.11455

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and lete hym be there at that day , PASTON,II,377.446.11456

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for there be tenauntes +tat varyen fro his billes
PASTON,II,377.446.11457

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he can best answere there-to . And lete your lond +tat your fermour
may leve and pay you , PASTON,II,377.446.11458

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and than shall your lordshepes ben good and your lond wele teled ;
PASTON,II,377.446.11459

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if ye vndo your tenauntes with ouer-chargyng of your fermes it
shall distroy your tenauntes and lordshepes . PASTON,II,377.446.11460

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue seyn Catelyns corn with your tenauntes , bothyn-2 +tat lyght in
+te manere and in his owyn place , PASTON,II,377.446.11461

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and your tenauntes seyn pleynly that his corn is abyll j-now to content
you ; PASTON,II,377.446.11462

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and in asmych as he can make $you no mony with-ought he myght selle his
corn , I haue charged hym +tat a-geyn that Calle and I comen +tat he
shall kete redy a chapman most $profitabill for you and hym that wull
byd a summe to-gedere and pay down , PASTON,II,377.446.11463

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and we shall deliuere it hym . PASTON,II,377.446.11464

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also your shephard there desireth for to know if ye wuld haue hym still
, PASTON,II,377.446.11465

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for there is no-body hath spokyn to hym sith my mayster your fadere
dyed , PASTON,II,377.446.11466

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +terfore he dowtyth how shuld pay hym and ben his mayster .
PASTON,II,377.446.11467

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye must nedys haue hym or a no+ter , PASTON,II,377.446.11468

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +terfore I haue bodyn hym ocupie still till ye send hym othere word
. PASTON,II,377.446.11469

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Men of Fordham haue ocupied and pastored c acres of your grownd and
your tenauntes this ij yere that my mayster hath ben in trobill ,
PASTON,II,377.446.11470

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and your tenauntes dare nowthere commune there with there bestes ner
dryve a-wey there bestes , notwithstondyng that thei pesibilly kept it
euer a-forn and of old tyme bowndyd ought be old faderes for Snaylwell
grownd . PASTON,II,377.446.11471

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It were wele don that ye communed here-in with Alyngton and spoke
+terof with my lord of Wurcetere , PASTON,II,377.446.11472

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he and Woodhows arn lordes of the seid town ,
PASTON,II,377.446.11473

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the lengere that thei kepe here possession the wers shall be for
you . PASTON,II,377.446.11474

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I haue bodyn your fermour at Snaylwell sowyn certeyn whete lond
+tat he hat left on-sowyn , which shuld ben a hurt to hym +tat shuld
comyn in , PASTON,II,377.446.11475

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and it must nedys be sowyn this weke . PASTON,II,377.446.11476

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , your place goth down at Langhams . PASTON,II,377.446.11477

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It were wele don to kepe it vp , PASTON,II,377.446.11478

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for if my mayster had levyd he wuld haue chaunged it for the parsonage
, PASTON,II,377.446.11479

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so shall ye mown do here-after if ye kepe it vp ;
PASTON,II,377.446.11480

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and than shall ye haue a fayre manere . PASTON,II,377.446.11481

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I haue sent word to Sporle , Pagraue , and Cressyngham to make
redy mony a-geyn Sent Edmondes day the Kyng , PASTON,II,377.446.11482

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for than I sent hem word that Richard Calle shuld be than with them .
PASTON,II,377.446.11483

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And there-fore ye must <P_II,378> nedes send doun Calle , and
inespeciall for Snaylwell , PASTON,II,378.446.11484

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ell that man +tat shuld be your fermour shall take an othere ;
PASTON,II,378.446.11485

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
he wull no lengere a-bydyn . PASTON,II,378.446.11486

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I supped on Monday at nyght at a place of the Duke of Suffolk ,
PASTON,II,378.446.11487

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there was the parson of Causton , a chapeleyn of my lady of Suffolk
, PASTON,II,378.446.11488

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and thei talked sore of my ladyes bargeyn PASTON,II,378.446.11489

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and wern right sory +tat she shuld forsake it , PASTON,II,378.446.11490

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and the seid parson seyd pleynly that the feffeys had mad here astate
and put here in possession of the maneres . Where-fore me semyth it
were necessary to commune wele with your councell in this matere ,
PASTON,II,378.446.11491

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for if the seid feffees ben compellid to releas in the Chauncery it
shall be nowt because of the astate +tat thei haue mad be-fore ,
PASTON,II,378.446.11492

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so whan that $ye wene to be most quiete and pesibill in your
liffelode ye myght $be most trobilled be such as haue there astate , &c
. PASTON,II,378.446.11493

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , there was +tat same tyme +te parson of Brampston ,
PASTON,II,378.446.11494

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he seid that Yeluerton sent late down a letter to the baliffe +tat
he hath set at Guton , PASTON,II,378.446.11495

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but what it ment I cowde not know PASTON,II,378.446.11496

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
nere I durst not mych enquere of +te parson , PASTON,II,378.446.11497

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he was right evyll disposid in his langage ageyn you .
PASTON,II,378.446.11498

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , William Yeluerton hath put ought the parson of Heynford of his
ferme , PASTON,II,378.446.11499

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he wote not where to kepe his catell . PASTON,II,378.446.11500

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I had not spoke with my mastres your moder at the makyng of this letter
, PASTON,II,378.446.11501

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for she was at Cayster . PASTON,II,378.446.11502

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The Blyssed Trinyte` kepe and spede you in all your materes .
PASTON,II,378.446.11503

AUTHOR:JAMES_GLOYS:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:24?
LETTER:PASTON_446:M4:1466?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwich on Sent Martyn Evyn in hast . Be your bedeman Ser
James Gloys PASTON,II,378.446.11504

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_447> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,379>

{ED:746._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1467,_3_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght reuerent and worschipfull mayster , Ser John Paston
, K. </font> PASTON,II,379.447.11505

<P_II,380>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it you to wete that I haue spoken with Henre` Inglouse and I
fynde hym disposid weele ; PASTON,II,380.447.11506

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
hough be it he hath be labored to nough of late be diuers , neuertheles
he woll not come withoute he haue a suppena , PASTON,II,380.447.11507

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if he come vp be suppena he can sey nor nought woll sey any thynge
that schulde be preiudice or hurte to your mater ,
PASTON,II,380.447.11508

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so he hathe tolde them +tat hath labored to hym for it , weche hym
thynkyth causith them to haue no grete hast to haue hym vp , &c .
PASTON,II,380.447.11509

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He telleth me +tat the Abbot of Langley schal come vp and Wichyngham ;
PASTON,II,380.447.11510

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
thes haue her writtes of suppena delyuerd vnto them .
PASTON,II,380.447.11511

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also ther cometh vp Doctour Vergeaunt and Frier Bernard .
PASTON,II,380.447.11512

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for Robert Inglouse , I haue spoken with hym
PASTON,II,380.447.11513

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I fynde hym no thyng so weele disposid as his brothir is ;
PASTON,II,380.447.11514

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
he hath be sore labored be the meanes of my lord of Norffolk and of my
lord of Suffolk . PASTON,II,380.447.11515

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He seyth largely +tat he knoweth moche of this mater , seyng to me +tat
if he schulde be examyned be-for a juge he wolde my master your vncle
wer his juge , PASTON,II,380.447.11516

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he knoweth the mater as weele as any man . PASTON,II,380.447.11517

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He seith if he be sworn be-fore my lorde Chaunceler he woll desire of
my lord +tat Maister William schulde be sworn as weele as he ;
PASTON,II,380.447.11518

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
neuertheles I haue so mevyd hym +tat withoute ther come a suppena for
hym he woll not come , as he seth . PASTON,II,380.447.11519

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It is hard to truste hym . PASTON,II,380.447.11520

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It were weele doo , if ther were no suppena out for hym , to cauce +tat
ther schulde non come nouther to hym nor to hes brother , &c .
PASTON,II,380.447.11521

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can not vndrestonde of no moo +tat schulde come vp yet ,
PASTON,II,380.447.11522

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I schal enquere and sende you word as hastely as I can .
PASTON,II,380.447.11523

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue not spoken with John Maryot yet , PASTON,II,380.447.11524

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but I schal speke with hym within this iij dayes and sende you worde ,
&c . PASTON,II,380.447.11525

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ferthermore , ser , like you to remembre the lees of the maner of
Sporle . PASTON,II,380.447.11526

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your fermours goth out at Michelmes next comyng .
PASTON,II,380.447.11527

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Henry Halman wolde haue it for his sones , PASTON,II,380.447.11528

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if he schulde haue it he wolde wete at this tyme be-cauce he wolde
somerlay and tylle the londe otherwice then it is .
PASTON,II,380.447.11529

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It were tyme to lete it , wo so euer schulde haue it .
PASTON,II,380.447.11530

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Henry woll geue for it but xx li. , wherfor if ye wol +tat he haue it
plese you to sende word how we schal do with all , &c .
PASTON,II,380.447.11531

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Godde spede you in all youre maters PASTON,II,380.447.11532

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sende you hastely a goode ende in hem . PASTON,II,380.447.11533

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Castre on Friday next after Esterne Day .
PASTON,II,380.447.11534

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_447:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your own seruaunt Richard C. PASTON,II,380.447.11535

<Q_PAS_A_1467?_FS_JGRESHAM> <L_PASTON_448> <A_JAMES_GRESHAM>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,381>

{ED:747._JAMES_GRESHAM_TO_SIMON_DAMME_FOR_JOHN_PASTON_II_PROBABLY_
1467,_2_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

<font>

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
To my worshipfull cosyn Symond Damme $at Lyncoln Inne at London $be
this delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,381.448.11536

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull ser and as in my trost my verray speciall good
maister , I recomande me to you with al the seruyce {with}_P I can and
may . PASTON,II,381.448.11537

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Lyke it you to wytte that I haue do my bysynes to enquere for suyche
dedes as ye wrot fore on-to me , PASTON,II,381.448.11538

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so God me helpe I can not wytte where I shuld spede to haue ony
suyche dedes . PASTON,II,381.448.11539

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I spak to a persone +tat is your good lover , the whiche tolde me that
+ter was a gret plee bytwene my lord of Suffolk and Ser John Fastolf
for the maner of Drayton , for whiche matier William Wysetre was sent
to enquere for euydencez touchyng the Pooles lyvelond in suyche places
as thei were lordes of in their dayes . PASTON,II,381.448.11540

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And +te seid Wysetre fonde euydencez that touched a maner called
Mundham Maner , sumtyme longyng to the Pooles that were owenneres of
Drayton , the whiche euydences eased meche Ser John Fastolf .
PASTON,II,381.448.11541

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
But +te seid persone that enfourmed me of this can not telle the armes
, ne what euydencez tho shuld be in certeyn , sauyng he thynkyth
indoubted +tat William Worsetre shuld not be vnremembred of this .
Wherfor it is thought to +te same persone +tat enfourmed me of this ,
and by me also , that it shuld be expedyent for you to commune of +tis
matier by your <P_II,382> wysdam with +te same William Wysetre , now
beyng at London , PASTON,II,382.448.11542

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he by lyklyhod can telle you a certeynte` , &c .
PASTON,II,382.448.11543

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as touchyng my maister Ser Thomas Mongomery , I trost veryly that
he nothir hath ne shall haue cause of grudger by my defaut ,
PASTON,II,382.448.11544

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I can not vndirstond ony cause of grudger ; PASTON,II,382.448.11545

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for euer whanne my cosyn Damme hath spoken with my seid maisteres
attourne` to haue knowelage by writyng of what thyng shuld be the cause
of callyng on you , he answerith that my Maister W. Paston hath a bille
+terof PASTON,II,382.448.11546

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but my cosyn can non gete . Wherfor I deme that the seid attourne`
meneth not weel . PASTON,II,382.448.11547

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I entende noon o+ter but in als meche as in me is to se your
indempnyte` , with +te grace of God , who euer mote be your guyde and
protectour . PASTON,II,382.448.11548

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwich the ij day of Juyll . PASTON,II,382.448.11549

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt in +tat he can and may to his power , James Gresham
PASTON,II,382.448.11550

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , an noon after +tis was wretyn had I knowelage of +te massageris
comyng to London , berar of this , PASTON,II,382.448.11551

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I had thought to haue wretyn the letter a-bove wretyn newe ,
by-cause of the foule wrytyng and interlynyeng ,
PASTON,II,382.448.11552

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but now I lakke leyser . Wherfor I prey you vnderstond the pyth of my
seid wrytyng and enfourme my seid maister Ser John P. of +te same ,
PASTON,II,382.448.11553

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I wold fayn do that shulde please hym , &c .
PASTON,II,382.448.11554

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And the persone that enfourmed me dar not be aknowe of his name ,
PASTON,II,382.448.11555

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ne he wold not it shuld be vnderstond to them that be of counsell ageyn
my maister . PASTON,II,382.448.11556

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It was +te parson of Heylesdon , &c . PASTON,II,382.448.11557

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
More-ouer , as I haue wretyn to you of late , Palmer , vndirshireve of
Norffolk , hath sent his letter to his depute` to acomplyssh our entent
for Chyldes matier as ye and I were accordet . PASTON,II,382.448.11558

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thus told Wykes me for verray certeyn , &c. , PASTON,II,382.448.11559

AUTHOR:JAMES_GRESHAM:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25?
LETTER:PASTON_448:M4:1467?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
the ij day of Juyll . PASTON,II,382.448.11560

<Q_PAS_A_1467_FS_JDAUBENEY> <L_PASTON_449> <A_JOHN_DAUBENEY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,382>

{ED:748._FROM_JOHN_DAUBENEY_1467,_8_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

<P_II,383>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Please your masterchep to have knowlage that my lord Archebyschop of
Yorke is in god helle , blyssyd be God . PASTON,II,383.449.11561

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I came to hym as on Monday last past PASTON,II,383.449.11562

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and toke hym your letter , PASTON,II,383.449.11563

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and whan I had takyn hym and he had ouer-sey it he merveylle sore of
hyr dysposicion . PASTON,II,383.449.11564

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
A bad me not care , PASTON,II,383.449.11565

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
ye shuld do welle j-nowe . PASTON,II,383.449.11566

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And than he told me that he had spokyn to Master Will Paston for a note
of a letter howghe it is best to write to hyr ; PASTON,II,383.449.11567

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so on Tewysday Master Will and I and Skerne of my lord of Oxenford
hows mad and toke hym on Wednysday o not of a letter +te wyche I send
yow . PASTON,II,383.449.11568

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And whan he sey it he thowght it to long , PASTON,II,383.449.11569

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and mad on after is owune entent , +te wiche I send yow a copy of .
PASTON,II,383.449.11570

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also I send yow a copy of +te letter +tat +te Quene sent to my lord of
Oxenford for +te maner of Cotton for Blyaunt ; PASTON,II,383.449.11571

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but my lord of Yorke told to Skerne +tat he wold in any wysse that my
lord of Oxenford shuld help yow to kepe possession .
PASTON,II,383.449.11572

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so Skerne purposythe to be wyth-in thys v dayes at home for to
enforme my lord of Oxenford of my lord of Yorke is entent , and +tat he
se in no wysse that no man do yow no wrong as moche as my lord of
Oxenford powyr may help yow ; PASTON,II,383.449.11573

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for Skerne came fro my lord of Oxenford to my lord of Yorke for +tis
same mater , for +tat my lord of Yorke shuld jnforme +te Quene of +te
mater , PASTON,II,383.449.11574

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and be-cause +te Quene hathe take hyr chambre my lord of Yorke toke
Skerne a rynge for a tokyn to my lord Tresorere +tat he shuld excuse my
lord of Oxenford to +te Quene , PASTON,II,383.449.11575

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for as moche as ye hathe infeffid my lord of Oxenford in a trost in +te
maner of Cotton he may no lesse doo but helpe yow , &c .
PASTON,II,383.449.11576

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , thys day is +te massenger gon to my lady of Suffolk wyth my lord
letter . PASTON,II,383.449.11577

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I shall have a answere at +te More on Monday , I trost to God , ryght
god , &c . PASTON,II,383.449.11578

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
It cowd non ere be sped ; PASTON,II,383.449.11579

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
my lord hath be all +tis weke at +te $cowncell at Chelchythe , and j
day at Chenne . PASTON,II,383.449.11580

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I send yow iij writtys for feleneys and trespace and ij for
Mariote mater . Also your flowyr ; also a letter of Callys ; also a
write for Playter ; a letter to Mastres Clere . PASTON,II,383.449.11581

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , my lord wylle in any wyse that ye kepe welle all +te lyvelod
+tat ye have of Ser Jon Fastolff , and +tat ye suffyr no man to entre
no lond nore place , lord nore other personys what sum ever they be .
PASTON,II,383.449.11582

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye may <P_II,384> veryly thynke he ys your speciall god lord ,
PASTON,II,384.449.11583

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and that ye shall knowe in tyme comyng . PASTON,II,384.449.11584

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I vnderstand +tat Calle dothe pasyngly welle in your maters in +te
spirituall lawe , as his letter makyth mencion , &c .
PASTON,II,384.449.11585

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at London +te Satyrday befor Seynt Lawrens Day .
PASTON,II,384.449.11586

AUTHOR:JOHN_DAUBENEY:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:25
LETTER:PASTON_449:M4:1467:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt Jon Daubeney PASTON,II,384.449.11587

<Q_PAS_C_1460S_T_CDAUNE> <L_PASTON_450> <A_CECILY_DAUNE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,389>

{ED:753._FROM_CECILY_DAUNE_1463-8,_3_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To the right worshipfull sir and with my faithful hert and
seruice full entyerly beloued gode maistir Sir John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,389.450.11588

<P_II,390>

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Right worshipfull sir , and with my faithfull herte and seruice full
entierly beloued gode maistir , jn my most humble wyse I recommaund me
vnto your goode maistership . PASTON,II,390.450.11589

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Pleace it the same to wite that I thenke right longe to I haue verrey
knolege of your welfare , the which vndirstonde wil be to me right
grete comfort . PASTON,II,390.450.11590

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And +tat causeth me to write vnto you as nowe ; and also to late you
wite +tat I herde reperte ye shulde be wedded vnto a doughtir of the
Duchez of Somirset , which matir and I spake with you I couth enforme
your maistirship +tat were to longe to write as nowe .
PASTON,II,390.450.11591

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
But I shal and do pray God dayly to sende you such one vnto your
worldes make +tat wil drede and faithfully vnfeyned love you a-boue
alle othir erthely creatures . PASTON,II,390.450.11592

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
For +tat is most excellent richesse in +tis worlde , as I suppose ;
PASTON,II,390.450.11593

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
fore erthely goodes bene transsitory , PASTON,II,390.450.11594

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
and wedding contynues for terme of lyfe , which with som folke is a
full longe terme . PASTON,II,390.450.11595

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And therfore , sire , savyng your displeasire , me semez wedding wolde
haue goode avysement . PASTON,II,390.450.11596

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Moreouir , sir , like it your maistirship to vndirstond +tat wyntir and
colde weders draweth negh , and I haue but fewe clothez but of your
gift , God thanke you . Wherefore , sir , and it like you I besech your
gode maistirship that ye will vouchsafe to remembre me your seruaunte
with som lyuerey such as pleaseth you ayens this wyntir , to make me a
gown to kepe me from the colde wedders ; and +tat I myght haue it , and
such answare as ye pleace in the premisses , sente vnto me be the
bringere herof . PASTON,II,390.450.11597

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
And I schal contynuwe youre oratrix and pore seruaunte , and hertely
pray to God for your prosperite` , whom I besech haue you , right
worshipfull sir , and with my faithful herte and seruice full entierly
beloued gode maistir , in his blessed gouernaunce .
PASTON,II,390.450.11598

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Hellowe the iij=de= day of Nouembre . PASTON,II,390.450.11599

AUTHOR:CECILY_DAUNE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_450:M4:1460S:COPY:OTHER
Cicile Daune PASTON,II,390.450.11600

<Q_PAS_C_1469?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_451> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,390>

{ED:754._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_1469,_7_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the worshipfull and with alle myn hert right entierly bilouyd
Sir John Paston , knyght , this lettre be deliuered . </font>
PASTON,II,390.451.11601

<P_II,391>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Th'Erle of Oxinford PASTON,II,391.451.11602

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right hertly welbilouyd , I grete you wele . PASTON,II,391.451.11603

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where I am for trowth enfourmyd that the Duchesse of Suffolk wolle
hold a court on Monday next commyng at Coton , to th'entent +tat she
wolle fynde the maner of th'Empnals holde of hir by knyghtes seruice
and they +tat ben possessioners of the same shulde payle certeine of
the parke of Weverston , and by-cause this is nat parfourmyd nor don
thoo that ben possessioners shall at the said court be amersid .
PASTON,II,391.451.11604

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And it is agreed that Sir William Yeluerton , Sir Thomas Hoo , shalle
be at the said court and wolle pay the amercyment and to deliuer the
said Duchesse possession of the said seruice and palyng , and so by
this meane to be-come tenauntes to the said Duchesse .
PASTON,II,391.451.11605

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And what wolle be-falle more herof I kan nat sey . Wherfor me thinkith
it were welle don ye were at the said court with your councell , and to
do therin as they wolle avise you . PASTON,II,391.451.11606

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also , as ye come to the said court take your wey by the said Duchesse
to th'entent +tat ye come to se hir welfare , &c .
PASTON,II,391.451.11607

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Do herin as your councell wolle avyse you . PASTON,II,391.451.11608

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wolde ye dud welle , PASTON,II,391.451.11609

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and to my power I wolle help you . PASTON,II,391.451.11610

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Our Lorde kepe you . PASTON,II,391.451.11611

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27?
LETTER:PASTON_451:M4:1469?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writyn at Tatyngston the vij day of Januer . PASTON,II,391.451.11612

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_452> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,395>

{ED:759._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1469,_22_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght reuerent and worshipfull master Ser John Paston ,
knyght . </font> PASTON,II,395.452.11613

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it your gode masterschip to wete that , wher as ye mervell +tat
I was not with you vpon the Sonday next be-fore the Assencion Day , I
had no suche comaundement from yow nor no man spake to me therof ,
PASTON,II,395.452.11614

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if ther hadde I had not fawted to haue been ther with you .
PASTON,II,395.452.11615

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ferthermore , as for my day of the suerte` of peas Henry Wheler tolde
me my day was xv=a= Trinitatis , PASTON,II,395.452.11616

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and therof he made me a bille . PASTON,II,395.452.11617

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
He is fowle to blame to serue me so . PASTON,II,395.452.11618

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles I am moche bounde to your masterschip for the gret labour
and besynes weche ye had for the saf garde of my swertees and me , &c .
PASTON,II,395.452.11619

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
$Moreouer like your masterschip to haue knowlege what money I haue payd
son the tyme +tat I departed from your masterschip last at London .
PASTON,II,395.452.11620

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Frust , delyuerd to my mastres parte of her c s. weche sche lent for
Maryot mater to me , lxvj s. viij d . PASTON,II,395.452.11621

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , delyuerd to Dawbeney at diuers tymes for housold son Midlent ,
with xxx s. receyued of the fermour of the deyre` , xj li. xj s. iiij d
. PASTON,II,395.452.11622

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , delyuerd to the mastre of the College onward for hes hire , l s
. PASTON,II,395.452.11623

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , delyuerd to Maryot x s . PASTON,II,395.452.11624

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The somme herof draweth xvijj li. ij s. , PASTON,II,395.452.11625

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I haue receyued of your lyflod son I com from London but xviij li.
x s. of the weche I sent to London xiij li. weche I borowyd for you the
laste tyme I was ther . PASTON,II,395.452.11626

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so haue I payd mor thenne I haue receyued be xij li. x s. , weche I
haue chevisched here . PASTON,II,395.452.11627

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I cowde non borwe of Master William . PASTON,II,395.452.11628

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue borewyd of John Wellys x marke , for the weche he hath an
obligacion of x li. of me , to be payd at Midsomer ,
PASTON,II,395.452.11629

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and I haue borwyd of John Cooke iiij li. , PASTON,II,395.452.11630

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so haue I payd of myn owne xl s. . PASTON,II,395.452.11631

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And of all this twelmothe I haue not had on peny for my wages .
PASTON,II,395.452.11632

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ther is non of them +tat hath purveyd nor chewisched halfe so moche as
I haue don . PASTON,II,395.452.11633

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Her is no man payd of ther wages , but all spent in howsold .
PASTON,II,395.452.11634

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I take not a peny in all Suffolk nor Flegge of your lyflod , nor
Boyton nor Heyneford ; PASTON,II,395.452.11635

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I take non but at Gughton , weche I am feyne to gadre it myselfe of the
tenauntes for the baylyf woll not come there , at Saxthorp , <P_II,396>
Spoorle , and Sneylewell , and xxvj s. weche I had at Techewell -
PASTON,II,396.452.11636

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
thes ar the places wher I haue money and in non other place .
PASTON,II,396.452.11637

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Her is moche malte made and not solde . PASTON,II,396.452.11638

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Me semyth it were weele doon som of it were solde +tat mennes wages
myght be payd , PASTON,II,396.452.11639

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for they compleyn grevesly , and the mastre of the College and Ser John
Stille bothe . PASTON,II,396.452.11640

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for Dawbeney for howsold , I schall purvey for hym +tat he schal
haue of me within this x dayes vj or vij marke more then he hath ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11641

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and +tat schall fynde the howsold thes vij or viij wekes be-side the
store . PASTON,II,396.452.11642

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And if ye wol +tat we selle this malte like you to sende vs worde ,
+tat they may haue som money . PASTON,II,396.452.11643

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The pris her is no better then xx d. a quarter .
PASTON,II,396.452.11644

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles it were better to selle som of it as the price gothe then
for to lete hem be on-payd , PASTON,II,396.452.11645

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ther is like to growe ryght an evele noyce of it if it schulde
endure any whyle , &c . PASTON,II,396.452.11646

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , I sent you a letter how ye wolde I schulde do with the letyng of
your maner of Spoorle . PASTON,II,396.452.11647

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I mervel I here no word from you for it . PASTON,II,396.452.11648

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ye most sende worde hastely , PASTON,II,396.452.11649

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
or ell it wol do you harme be diuers meanes , &c .
PASTON,II,396.452.11650

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , where as ye write +tat Mariot hath be with you at London and
+tat he had of you x s. , and +tat ye wolde I schulde reken with hym
and to see +tat he had an estate in the maner of Bekham , sere , I
vndrestonde not what appoyntment ye haue taken with hym ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11651

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for withoute ye had taken an other direccion with hym then I vndrestod
+tat ye haue do , me semyth it were not weele don to geue hym an estate
; PASTON,II,396.452.11652

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and also , though I scholde geue hym astate I cowde not ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11653

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for ye haue the deede weche James Andrwes sealed , and the warant of
the levery of the same lond out of the Kynges hande , weche most furst
be executed or any astate be made . PASTON,II,396.452.11654

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles I schal speke with hym and feele hough he is disposid ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11655

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and if ye haue not taken non appoyntment with hym I schall assay what I
can doo and sende you worde ; PASTON,II,396.452.11656

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for it were ryght necessary +tat ye were throwh with hym ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11657

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he is not trusty nor just in hes promes PASTON,II,396.452.11658

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
but leggeth many thynges PASTON,II,396.452.11659

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and all is but forto delay the tyme . PASTON,II,396.452.11660

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
What he meneth I wot not . PASTON,II,396.452.11661

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for a rekenyng with hym , I haue rekoned with hym ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11662

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and ye owe hym of his l li. but xx li. and x s. ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11663

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he is payd of hys annuyte` for the yere ended at Michelmes last
past . PASTON,II,396.452.11664

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I can thynke he wolle not delyuer an astate from hym tyll he haue hes
money , &c . PASTON,II,396.452.11665

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Item , ser , Jekson recomaundeth hym vnto your goode masterschip ,
letyng you wete +tat his crosbowe is brokyn , besechyng you to sende
hym worde if ye knowe any man in London +tat can make it a-yen ,
PASTON,II,396.452.11666

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for if he vndrestode ther were any man +tat cowde make it he wolde
sende it theder , &c . PASTON,II,396.452.11667

<P_II,397>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Jesu kepe you PASTON,II,397.452.11668

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and spede you in all your maters , PASTON,II,397.452.11669

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sende you the victory of your elmees . PASTON,II,397.452.11670

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Caster the Monday in Pentecost Weeke .
PASTON,II,397.452.11671

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_452:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt Richard Calle PASTON,II,397.452.11672

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_453> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_II> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,397>

{ED:761._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1469,_3_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght worshipfull master Ser John Paston in haste .
</font> PASTON,II,397.453.11673

<P_II,398>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesith it youre goode mastership to wette +tat I haue ben at Bekham
and haue aggreed with Mariot dettours and haue discharged Mariot of the
dette of xvj li. , and haue dayes of the payment for a yere and more ,
and haue for-geuenes of c s. of the seide xvj li. , weche is to your
avauntage and not to Maryottes . PASTON,II,398.453.11674

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And so I haue taken an open astate in the maner of Bekham , accordyng
to your desire . PASTON,II,398.453.11675

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I haue had moche payne to brynge Mariot and enspeciall his wyf ,
PASTON,II,398.453.11676

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for be my feythe she wolde not out of the howse when +tat I schulde
take an astate . PASTON,II,398.453.11677

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
I was entretyng of hir a our and more , PASTON,II,398.453.11678

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and so with fayer speke I brought her out , PASTON,II,398.453.11679

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and with money weche I toke her at that tyme made her the better willed
, &c . PASTON,II,398.453.11680

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ferthermore like you to wette +tat my Lorde Scales hathe sent to Master
Roos for men , and to diuers other , and also to Mastre William +tat he
schulde gete of youre men and sende hym to Midelton .
PASTON,II,398.453.11681

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
The messenger came this day , PASTON,II,398.453.11682

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he wold they schulde be at Midelton with hym on Wednesday next
comyng , weche was a small warnyng to vs to purvey any men ;
PASTON,II,398.453.11683

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and also we were in dought what purviaunce ye had made at London ,
weche causid vs to purvey noon , PASTON,II,398.453.11684

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and also we wante her all +tat schulde longe vnto them , &c .
PASTON,II,398.453.11685

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also , as for the demenyng of the Kyng and the lordes here I
vndrestonde my masters and my master your brother haue sent you worde
better thenne I cowde , PASTON,II,398.453.11686

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for I was not heere , &c . PASTON,II,398.453.11687

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Almyghty Godde spede you in all your maters PASTON,II,398.453.11688

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and sende you a goode ende in hem . PASTON,II,398.453.11689

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Norwiche the Monday next after Sein Peter Day .
PASTON,II,398.453.11690

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_453:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Your seruaunt Richard Calle PASTON,II,398.453.11691

<Q_PAS_C_1469_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_454> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,398>

{ED:762._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1469,_18_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To Ser John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,398.454.11692

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and my especiall true-hertid frende , I commaunde me
vn-to you , praying you to ordeyne me iij horsse harneys as godely as
ye <P_II,399> and Genyn kan devyse , as it were for your-silfe ; and
+tat I may haue theyme in all hast . PASTON,II,399.454.11693

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also Skern saith ye wolde ordeyne ij standarde stavys .
PASTON,II,399.454.11694

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
This I pray you to remembre , PASTON,II,399.454.11695

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and my wife shalle deliuer you siluer , PASTON,II,399.454.11696

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yit she most borowed it . PASTON,II,399.454.11697

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Vj or vij li. I wold be-stowe on a horsseharneys ,
PASTON,II,399.454.11698

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so Skern tolde me I might haue . PASTON,II,399.454.11699

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Lorde Hastyngys had for +te same price , PASTON,II,399.454.11700

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but I wolde nat myn were lik his . PASTON,II,399.454.11701

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I trust to God we shalle do right welle , who preserue you .
PASTON,II,399.454.11702

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wreten at Canterbury in hast the xviij day of Juyll .
PASTON,II,399.454.11703

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:26
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:27
LETTER:PASTON_454:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,399.454.11704

<Q_PAS_A_1470_FS_JPAMPYNG> <L_PASTON_455> <A_JOHN_PAMPYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,401>

{ED:765._FROM_JOHN_PAMPYNG_1470,_15_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my right reuerent and worshipfull master Sir John Paston ,
knyght . </font> PASTON,II,401.455.11705

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Right worshipfull sir and my good master , I recomaund me vnto yow in
my moost lowly wise . PASTON,II,401.455.11706

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And please yow to wete I haue with the mony ye sent me by Judy rewardid
my felaship as ye comaundid , wretyn in a bille closid herin .
PASTON,II,401.455.11707

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for William Milsent , I lete hym wete hough ye vndirstood he was
disposed to goo hoom to his faders , wherof ye were pleasid and wold he
shuld do so . PASTON,II,401.455.11708

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
He said he intendid not to be with his fadir , ner it was not in his
power so to do . PASTON,II,401.455.11709

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuirthelesse he is home to his fadir PASTON,II,401.455.11710

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ther abidith , PASTON,II,401.455.11711

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but what he purposith to do I wote not . PASTON,II,401.455.11712

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Davy is at home PASTON,II,401.455.11713

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and takyth heed to his lond . PASTON,II,401.455.11714

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Honeworth is content PASTON,II,401.455.11715

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and gooth to his labour . PASTON,II,401.455.11716

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for Stompis , I haue be with the Abbot of Sen Benettes for hym as ye
comaundid , PASTON,II,401.455.11717

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he recomaundith hym to yow PASTON,II,401.455.11718

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and said to me he was right glad that ye wold send to hym for any
servaunt ye had , saying that if he coud do any thyng for yow and for
any servaunt of yours he wold do it feithfully .
PASTON,II,401.455.11719

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also he said he wold not fayle yow whill he levid in that he coud
and myght do , trustyng heraftir to haue your help and favour in that
he shall haue a do . PASTON,II,401.455.11720

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And he told me and Stompis bothe whanne so evir he come he shuld be
welcome , and that he wold do aswell to hym as to fewe servauntes he
had for yowre sake , and that he wold kepe hym for yow .
PASTON,II,401.455.11721

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for my-self , my mastres saith she woll geve me mete and drynk for a
season . PASTON,II,401.455.11722

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Neuirthelesse I am warnyd to be ware , PASTON,II,401.455.11723

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for it is told me that ther is processe out vpon the appele ayens me
and other . Wherfore I beseche yow that that mater may be take heed to
as ye may , that we myght haue knowlech if any processe ther be , that
we may be ware ; PASTON,II,401.455.11724

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I thynk verely and I or any other come in ther handis this world we
shuld not escape without shame at the leest . PASTON,II,401.455.11725

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for the remnaunt of the mony biside this bille , ye owe to
the parson of Sent Edmondes Caster , for iiij comb malt and ij comb
whete , x s. whiche I promysid hym to pay ; and Robert Newton
lymebrenner for lyme xiij s. iiij d. , he callith vpon me for it ; and
Robert Bery for shoyng x s. ; PASTON,II,401.455.11726

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if it please yow that I make payment herof ther shall remayne in my
handes xxiij s. iiij d . PASTON,II,401.455.11727

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And what ye woll I do herin I beseche yow to send me word .
PASTON,II,401.455.11728

<P_II,402>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Judy hath be with Thomas Fastolff ; PASTON,II,402.455.11729

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he can telle yow answer in that mater . PASTON,II,402.455.11730

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for the rewle at Caster , they selle and make mony of such stuffe as
they fond there , PASTON,II,402.455.11731

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and kepe other rewle that the contre` is full sory and irk of , and of
my lordes men resortyng to hem , PASTON,II,402.455.11732

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and riden about the contry onknowen PASTON,II,402.455.11733

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and by berynges on hand take large bribys . PASTON,II,402.455.11734

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray God be your spede and send yow good meane for your wele and ease
to them that owe you seruise . PASTON,II,402.455.11735

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Norwich the Monday next aftir Relike Sonday .
PASTON,II,402.455.11736

AUTHOR:JOHN_PAMPYNG:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:28
LETTER:PASTON_455:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your pore seruaunt Pampyng PASTON,II,402.455.11737

<Q_PAS_A_1472_FS_JOSBERN> <L_PASTON_456> <A_JOHN_OSBERN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,406>

{ED:767._FROM_JOHN_OSBERN_1472,_10_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To the right worshepfull my mastere Ser John Paston , $knight .
</font> PASTON,II,406.456.11738

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
A=o= xij E. R. quarti PASTON,II,406.456.11739

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please it your mastereschep to knowe that Johon Shawe and I haue goten
a carpenter fro Walsyngham to Sporle to valewe your wod , the wheche
carpentere hese costis there Sondaye at nyght next before the Assencion
off owre Lord Jesu Cryst , Mondaye , Tewesdaye , Wednesdaye , Assencion
Daye , Frydaye , and Saterdaye , and for hese labour , iij s. iiij d .
PASTON,II,406.456.11740

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And vpon the syte off your seid wode he hath valewid the launde wythin
the dykes xij fote inward fro the cop of the dyke and wythowte at liiij
li. vij s. x d . And wythin the wode xij fote wythin alle the dykes
vj=xx= li. vij s. vijj d . PASTON,II,406.456.11741

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The valewe off the dykes abowte the woode fro xij fote fro $wythin
owtewardis arn prysid at x li. grete chepis ; the valew off the trees
in the maner and in the closes a+gens the seid manor toward Swaffham xx
marc. gret chepe . PASTON,II,406.456.11742

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
There-off be ware PASTON,II,406.456.11743

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and be not to hasty , &c . PASTON,II,406.456.11744

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The cloos at the tow <em> ... </em> toward Pykenham not valewid nor not
spoken off , &c . PASTON,II,406.456.11745

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The summa totallis - ix=xx= li. and xviij li. ij s. viij d .
PASTON,II,406.456.11746

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And if +ge shuld selle all this wode togedyr for redy syluer neuer
lesse in the summa paste v marc . PASTON,II,406.456.11747

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If +ge woll sell the wode <em> ... </em> the lawnde wythin the dykes
and the standardis , thoo I shall wryte aftyre in this bille for to
stande in any wyse less <em> ... </em> all the hole summa at the most
paste x li. , PASTON,II,406.456.11748

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for who so euer shall by it he may so leve and gete goode , &c .
PASTON,II,406.456.11749

<P_II,407>

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The summa off your standardis for certeyn reconyd the Mondaye and the
Tewsdaye whill I was at Sporle wythi <em> ... </em> and xij fote wythin
the dykes in forme above rehersid - xj=xx= . PASTON,II,407.456.11750

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And iche standarde a +gard above the grownde <em> ... </em> abowte an
<em> ... </em> lessere till we come xij inche and viij inche besyde all
odyre smale that arn off lesse mesure <em> ... </em> growe the wheche
arn many and resonabely sufficient , &c . PASTON,II,407.456.11751

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The nowmbere off your standardis wythin your <em> ... </em> cowntid and
summe be estimacion of the mesures and formes above rehersid -
cccc=ma=xxxvj=ti= . PASTON,II,407.456.11752

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for your $vndyrewode , I can not fynde the meane to valewid to your
a-vayle be-cause it were necessary to knowe the purpose off your
fellyng ; where-off beware , &c . PASTON,II,407.456.11753

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for the fensyng of your dykes , and +ge shuld felle your bordorys
off your wode the suthsyde , videlicet toward Pykenham fro the wonges
to Walsyngham weye , is lxxx rodde at leste , the price off the rodde
iiij d. , PASTON,II,407.456.11754

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dyggyng , plashyng , and heggyng - summa xxvj s. viij d .
PASTON,II,407.456.11755

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The est syde toward Neyghton and Sparham vj=xx= rodde at the leste -
PASTON,II,407.456.11756

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
summa xl s. PASTON,II,407.456.11757

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The northende toward Dunham lxxx rodde - PASTON,II,407.456.11758

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
summa xxvj s. viij d . PASTON,II,407.456.11759

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The west syde toward Sporle be the Loyes vj=xx= rodde -
PASTON,II,407.456.11760

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
summa xl s . PASTON,II,407.456.11761

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Summa - vj li. xiij s. iiij d. where-off sum is repayrid and sum maye
be sparid , PASTON,II,407.456.11762

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but at the lest it woll coste yow a vj marc. , &c .
PASTON,II,407.456.11763

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If it please yow to take myn symple avyse in your wode sale , selle non
in gret PASTON,II,407.456.11764

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but make fagottis and astell PASTON,II,407.456.11765

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lete alle your grete and goode tymbere and trees stande ,
PASTON,II,407.456.11766

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +ge shall make resonabely mony to your worchep and to your best
avayle , as John Shawe your seruaunt shall telle yow .
PASTON,II,407.456.11767

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If I maye do +gow any seruice in this c <em> ... </em> +ge shall fynde
me redy , so that +ge sende sufficient warant , be the grace off Jesu ,
who haue <em> yow in hese </em> kepyng . PASTON,II,407.456.11768

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wrete in hast at Walsyngham the Sundaye next aftyre the feest off the
Assencion off <em> owre Lord </em> Jesu Cryste . Be your John Osbern
PASTON,II,407.456.11769

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I praye yow geff credens in alle these materis to Shawe ,
PASTON,II,407.456.11770

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he can telle yow more shortlyere then I shuld wryte
PASTON,II,407.456.11771

AUTHOR:JOHN_OSBERN:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:30
LETTER:PASTON_456:M4:1472:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I hold hym trewe to yow in hese menyng . PASTON,II,407.456.11772

<Q_PAS_C_1473_T_WHASTINGS> <L_PASTON_457> <A_WILLIAM_HASTINGS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1430?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,410>

{ED:770._WILLIAM_LORD_HASTINGS_TO_SIR_JOHN_MIDDLETON_AND_PASTON_14
73,_16_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right hertily beloued frendes and felaws Sir John of
Middelton and Sir John Paston , knightes . </font>
PASTON,II,410.457.11773

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
After herty recommendacion I thank you of the gode attendancez that ye
yeue vnto the Kinges counsail at Calais , and the gode and effectuelle
deuoirs that ye putte you in to assiste my depute` Sir John Scot in
alle suche thinges as mowe concerne the saulfgarde of my charge there ;
lating you wite that if ther be any thing that I can and may do for you
I shal with right gode wil perfourme it to my power .
PASTON,II,410.457.11774

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
And I preye you to recommaunde me to my Lady Howard , my Lady
Bourgchier , and alle othre ladies and gentilwommen of the saide towne
; and in like wise to the Mayre , Lieutenant , and felaship of the
Staple , my felawes the souldeours , and alle othre suche as {to}_P ye
shal seme gode . PASTON,II,410.457.11775

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
And Oure Lord sende you your desirs . PASTON,II,410.457.11776

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Notyngham the xvj day of Septembre . PASTON,II,410.457.11777

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
Sir Jon Paston , I pray yov to yeve credens to svche +ting as my
depute` shall shew yov fro me , and conforme yov to +te same .
PASTON,II,410.457.11778

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:31
LETTER:PASTON_457:M4:1473:COPY:OTHER
Your felaw Hastynges PASTON,II,410.457.11779

<Q_PAS_A_1470S_FS_WPECOCK> <L_PASTON_458> <A_WILLIAM_PECOCK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,411>

{ED:772._FROM_WILLIAM_PECOCK_NOT_AFTER_1479,_4_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my rythworschipfful master Ser John Paston , knyth , be this
delyuerid . </font> PASTON,II,411.458.11780

<P_II,412>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ryth worschypful ser , I recomande me to youre good masterchep .
PASTON,II,412.458.11781

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesseth yow to wete that I haue receyvid Wheteley letter where-in is
wretyn that I chuld send you mony that I haue receyvid at Paston .
PASTON,II,412.458.11782

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , I haue spoke with youre tenauntys at Paston , Bakton , and othir
placys , PASTON,II,412.458.11783

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I receyvid no mony of noon of hem . PASTON,II,412.458.11784

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
They wend an had yow there ore this tyme . PASTON,II,412.458.11785

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I haue be there with youre tenauntys for here areragys ,
PASTON,II,412.458.11786

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and they arn better plessid to pay you +te mony thanne Master Will P. ,
be so they be sauyd harmles . PASTON,II,412.458.11787

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I haue putte hem in as good comforte as {in}_P I can ,
PASTON,II,412.458.11788

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and ye muste take hed +tat they be not sewyd be no wrytys this terme
but +tat they peyntid {ED:?} til ye speke with hem .
PASTON,II,412.458.11789

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , I send you a bylle of here dettys . PASTON,II,412.458.11790

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , I chal be at Paston the next weke also . PASTON,II,412.458.11791

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for mony , I kan $non send you at this tyme ,
PASTON,II,412.458.11792

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I haue not yet take as meche as +te gravore hath of me .
PASTON,II,412.458.11793

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for this feschyng there was neuer sen a wars ,
PASTON,II,412.458.11794

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for there can non heryng be bowte in this contre` ondir xiij s. iiij d.
a barel and viij s. iiij d. a kade , be-syde al othir costys .
PASTON,II,412.458.11795

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , +te swannys ware sente forth the next weke after youre departyng
. PASTON,II,412.458.11796

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for John Osbarn and Munde` the ben heylle and mery , blessid be God
; PASTON,II,412.458.11797

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and for deth , Caster and Mawteby there deyd non son Michellmas ,
PASTON,II,412.458.11798

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
at Fylby , Ormysby , and Scrowby and othir placys they dey stylle .
PASTON,II,412.458.11799

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
God sessid , PASTON,II,412.458.11800

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and send youre masterschep vyctory of youre adversseris .
PASTON,II,412.458.11801

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:_
LETTER:PASTON_458:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Mawteby the iiij day of Novembre . Be youre bedeman Will
Pekoc PASTON,II,412.458.11802

<Q_PAS_C_1477_FO_TBREWS> <L_PASTON_459> <A_THOMAS_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,413>

{ED:773._FROM_SIR_THOMAS_BREWS_1477,_8_March}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my ryght wurschypfull cosyn Syr Jhon Paston , knyght , be
this lettur delyuered , &c . </font> PASTON,II,413.459.11803

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wurschypfull and my hertely welebelouyd cosyn , I recommande me
vn-to +gowe , desyryng to here of +gowr welefare , whech I pray God may
be as contynuall good as I wolde hafe myn own . PASTON,II,413.459.11804

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , the cause of my wryting vn-to yowe at thys tyme is , I
fele wele be my cosyn John +gowr broder +tat +ge hafe vndyr-stondyng of
a mater whech is jn comynicacyon tochyng a maryage wyth Goddys grace to
be concluded betwyx my saide cosyn +gowr broder and my doghtur Mergery
, wheche is fare commonyd and not +gyt concluded , nere noght schall
nere may be tyll I hafe answere from +gowe agayn of +gowr good will and
asent to the seyd mater , and also of the obligacyon weche +tat I sende
+gowe herewyth ; PASTON,II,413.459.11805

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for , cosyn , I wold be sory to se awthere my cosyn +gowr broder or my
doghtur dryvyn to leve so meane a lyffe as +tei schuld do yf the vj=xx=
li. schuld be payde of there maryage money . PASTON,II,413.459.11806

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , I hafe takyn my-selfe so nere in leuyng of the saide
vj=xx= li. +tat wher as I hade leyde vpp an c li. for the maryage of a
+gonger doghtur of myn , I hafe nowe lent +te saide c li. and xx li.
ouer that to my cosyn +gowr broder , to be paide ageyn be suche esy
days as +te oblygacyon weche I sende +gowe herewyth specyfyes .
PASTON,II,413.459.11807

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , I were ryght lothe to bestowe so mech vppon on doghtur
+tat the o+ter hyr susters schuld fare the wars ; wherfor , cosyn , yf
+ge wyll +tat thys mater schall take effect vndyr suche forme as my
cosyn +gowr broder hath wretyn vn-to yowe , I pray +gowe put +terto
+gowr good wylle , and sum of +gowr coste , as I hafe done of myn more
largely +ten euer I purpose to do to any tweyn of hyr susters , as God
knowyth myn entent , whom I besech to send +gowe +gowre levest hertys
desyre . PASTON,II,413.459.11808

AUTHOR:THOMAS_BREWS:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:KIN:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_459:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Topcroft the viij day of Merch , &c . Be +gowr cosyn Syr T.
Brews , Knyth PASTON,II,413.459.11809

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FS_WPECOCK> <L_PASTON_460> <A_WILLIAM_PECOCK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,420>

{ED:778._FROM_WILLIAM_PECOCK_1477,_19_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryth worschepfull master , Ser John Paston , Knyth , logyd
at +te Goorge be Powllys Warffe in London in hast . </font>
PASTON,II,420.460.11810

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ryth worchepful ser , I recomand me to yowre good masterchep .
PASTON,II,420.460.11811

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesyth <P_II,421> you to wete +tat I haue purveyid for youre heryng
a-non after youre departyng , PASTON,II,421.460.11812

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I can get no caryage nowthir owte of Yermowth nere in no oder place
be-twyn Wynterton and Leystoft , nowthir be lond nere be +te se not yet
, and specyally for youre swanys . PASTON,II,421.460.11813

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Hery Cook seyth he wolle no more com on +te se with his good wylle .
PASTON,II,421.460.11814

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
There is no man wyllyng to del with youre swanys .
PASTON,II,421.460.11815

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Alsso , as for youre hors ye most ordeyne a nothir keper than they haue
, PASTON,II,421.460.11816

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
or ellis ye chal not leke wel be them whan ye se hem ;
PASTON,II,421.460.11817

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
they arn nowthir redyn nor corayd . PASTON,II,421.460.11818

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Peris is meche owteward , PASTON,II,421.460.11819

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Whyte wol not a-tende hem nowdyr for Peris ner for me ;
PASTON,II,421.460.11820

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
they arn not watryd butt at +te welle . PASTON,II,421.460.11821

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Peris hath be ryth seke , PASTON,II,421.460.11822

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yet , but for dysplesere of you , Peris had ben in hand with Whyte
or this tyme . PASTON,II,421.460.11823

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ye muste be purueyd of a nothir hors kepere , PASTON,II,421.460.11824

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
or ellis it wol do you harm on youre hors . PASTON,II,421.460.11825

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , I haue had iiij li. for to a sent you if I cowde haue gete ony
trosty man to you ward . PASTON,II,421.460.11826

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As for barly I can non selle a-boue xiiij d. +te comb .
PASTON,II,421.460.11827

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As $for youre leter +tat ye sent me , I haue fownd a frere +tat hath
promyssyd me to don his devere if it may be browte a-bowte be ony mene
in hast . PASTON,II,421.460.11828

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also , there is a grete chyppe go to wrekke be-for Wynterton ,
PASTON,II,421.460.11829

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there cam vp on youre seueral grownd gret plente` of bowe stavys
and waynescotte , and clappalde gret plente` . PASTON,II,421.460.11830

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I gate cartys PASTON,II,421.460.11831

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and caryd to +te towne +tat +tat was fownd on youre fee .
PASTON,II,421.460.11832

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mastras Clere hath sent down hyre men and with-set alle +te stuff and
wrekke , PASTON,II,421.460.11833

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and seyth +tat ye gete non there PASTON,II,421.460.11834

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for sche wol haue it be +te tytyl of +te lete ; PASTON,II,421.460.11835

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I haue answerd there-to +tat che owte non to haue be +tat tytil ,
PASTON,II,421.460.11836

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so if ye wol comon with yore cownsel I trow it to +te lord of +te
soylle and not to +te lete , PASTON,II,421.460.11837

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for +te maner holdyth nothyng of hyre . PASTON,II,421.460.11838

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sche had neuer no wrekke nor growndage til with-inne this xx wyntter .
PASTON,II,421.460.11839

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
There is no maner in Wyynterton but youre ; PASTON,II,421.460.11840

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
lesse youre ryth now PASTON,II,421.460.11841

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lesse it for euer . PASTON,II,421.460.11842

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I am threte to be trobilid there , PASTON,II,421.460.11843

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for there ben v men on lyve of +te chyppe . PASTON,II,421.460.11844

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+Te bordys had ben good for wyndownys and dorys .
PASTON,II,421.460.11845

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ye chuld haue had thyme worthe +te mony and sche had not lettyd it .
PASTON,II,421.460.11846

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
There is com vp $ther at Caster v or vj barell .
PASTON,II,421.460.11847

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Men of Scrowby hath fet it awey ; PASTON,II,421.460.11848

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
ye must haue a meen be sum wryte of trespas for them
PASTON,II,421.460.11849

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
or ellis it wool do yow meche harm here-after . PASTON,II,421.460.11850

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Rechard Kedman , John Pool senior , and William Abbys , thesse arn
summe of there namys of Scrowby . PASTON,II,421.460.11851

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I receyvyd a leter +te Twis-day be-fore Sen Edmon +te Kyng
<P_II,422> there as ye wryte to me for William Fosstere .
PASTON,II,422.460.11852

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
His sewirtesse ston chargyd fore iiij li. vj s. viij d. , as John Seyve
hath seyd to me or +te tyme +tat I receyvyd youre leter ,
PASTON,II,422.460.11853

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he hath ij men of Norwech to sewirte` to saue hym and his felaw
harmeless . PASTON,II,422.460.11854

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Scharggare is on PASTON,II,422.460.11855

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and Vyncent +te plomere is a nothir +tat chal bere +te dawnger .
PASTON,II,422.460.11856

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for youre swanys , I haue gete a man +tat chal cary hem be lond
, PASTON,II,422.460.11857

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I chal send word with +te swanys +tat +te heryng chal com be water
; PASTON,II,422.460.11858

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if ye chuld haue ony heryng for youre store it wold be purveyd fore
, PASTON,II,422.460.11859

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for heryng wol be dere or Lente . PASTON,II,422.460.11860

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , there arn wyndownys blow opyn in +te place
PASTON,II,422.460.11861

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and +te wyndown of +te gonne hows with-jnne +te brege is revyn .
PASTON,II,422.460.11862

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I wot not whethir it was so or ye wente or not .
PASTON,II,422.460.11863

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My lord of Norwech was at Caster Halle for to a cen +te place as he cam
to London ward . PASTON,II,422.460.11864

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , remembir youre hors , to haue a better keper .
PASTON,II,422.460.11865

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Sere , remembir thesse men of Scrowby PASTON,II,422.460.11866

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and comon with Master William Paston there-in , PASTON,II,422.460.11867

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he partith with you bothe wrekke and growndage in Caster ;
PASTON,II,422.460.11868

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he wold take +te accyon in his lordys name +tat he delyth fore
PASTON,II,422.460.11869

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
it ware a good wey , be my sympil wyth . PASTON,II,422.460.11870

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
God preserue you PASTON,II,422.460.11871

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and kepe yow PASTON,II,422.460.11872

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and bryng yow home a-yen to youre contre` . PASTON,II,422.460.11873

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_460:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wretyn at Mawteby on Sen Edmons Evyn +te Kyng in hast . Be youre man
and servant William Pekoc PASTON,II,422.460.11874

<Q_PAS_A_1477_FS_WPECOCK> <L_PASTON_461> <A_WILLIAM_PECOCK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,422>

{ED:779._FROM_WILLIAM_PECOCK_1477,_30_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ryth worchypful sere , I recomande me to youre good masterchep .
PASTON,II,422.461.11875

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Plesyth you as for Pekryngys mater I sent a frere in John Pekeryngys
name for +te evydens , PASTON,II,422.461.11876

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and he had an answere +tat if he had a busschelful of evydenss he chuld
noon haue of them , PASTON,II,422.461.11877

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for he hath set +te londe in trobil ; PASTON,II,422.461.11878

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
nor he cowd haue no seyte of none . PASTON,II,422.461.11879

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Also remembir youre ryth of youre wreke at Wynterton .
PASTON,II,422.461.11880

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Thesse arn +te menys namys of Wynterton : Robert Parker of West
Somerton , John Longyard of Wynterton , Thomas Goodknape of <P_II,423>
+te same , Will Wrantham and John Curteys of +te same Wynterton , +tat
caryid of youre seuerel grownd xxij carte ful of stuffe , viij=xx=
bowestauis , iij=xx= and vij waynescottys , xiiij=c= clapalde , v
barell tere , iiij copil oris , and gret plente` of wreke of +te
schyppe +tat is worth meche mony , as ye chal vnder-stonde +te trowth
after this . PASTON,II,423.461.11881

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And as for youre heryng +tat chuld in-to Essexkys , they arn there , be
+te grace of God . PASTON,II,423.461.11882

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
As for youre swanys , they chal be there be Oure Ladys Day next comyng
, I troste to God , ho haue youre masterchyp in is kepyng .
PASTON,II,423.461.11883

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Mawteby , where as I am ryth werey , on Sen Andrews Day A=o=
xvij=o= E . Be youre seruant Will Pekoc PASTON,II,423.461.11884

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Sere , if it plese youre masterchep , I sold yet no barly nere non can
a-bove xiiij d. +te comb , as I sen word in a leter be John Russe .
PASTON,II,423.461.11885

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
And I toke iiij li. in mony to bryng to youre $masterchep .
PASTON,II,423.461.11886

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
+Te prysse of youre heryng is iiij li. iij s. iiij d. , be-syd oder
costys . PASTON,II,423.461.11887

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Hery Cook wold goo with youre swanys , PASTON,II,423.461.11888

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
for his yefte chuld be vj s. viij d. , PASTON,II,423.461.11889

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
and there-fore he wold yeffe you his labore be so ye payd for his
costys . PASTON,II,423.461.11890

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_PECOCK:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:35
LETTER:PASTON_461:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT_CODE_METADATA
Ipse dixit . PASTON,II,423.461.11891

<Q_PAS_A_1478?_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_462> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1442>

<P_II,423>

{ED:780._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_PROBABLY_1478,_1_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_II}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worshypfull sir , Sir John Paston , cheualier ,
logged at the signe of the George next to Poulys Wharf , or to lefe
thys letter at a barbourys house ovyr the seyd George to delyuer yt to
Sir John Paston . </font> PASTON,II,423.462.11892

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Plese your gode maistershyp to wete that I herd thys day how a man wend
that a jugement ys passed ayenst your entent yn the ende of the last
terme - yt was not of verray certeyn tolde me but as a dreme - yn the
Kynges Chauncerye . PASTON,II,423.462.11893

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I coude gefe none aunsuer thertoo . PASTON,II,423.462.11894

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray God alle be well . PASTON,II,423.462.11895

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Hyt wold ease som of your frendes hertys yff they coude vndrestond ony
gode comfort . PASTON,II,423.462.11896

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sir , as for Robert I wold pray and requyre your maistershyp that he
may for hys lernyng be abydyng wyth your cousyn of Lyncoln Inne , as yt
<P_II,424> was promysed , and to be occupyed vnder a drede of displeser
vndre subieccion , wyth erly rysyng accustomed ,
PASTON,II,424.462.11897

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for slouth ys the moder and noryssher of all vices .
PASTON,II,424.462.11898

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He hath cost me moch good and labour , PASTON,II,424.462.11899

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and now he ys vppon hys makyng by vertues gouernaunce or vndoyng to the
contrarye ; PASTON,II,424.462.11900

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yn especyalle to be not conuersaunt ne neere amonges wommen , as I
was kept froo her company xxx yeres or ony such were of my councelle ,
I thank God of yt . PASTON,II,424.462.11901

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sir , and ye wryte to me as ye lust let no name be wythynne wryt whens
yt com , and that yt be sent by a sure comere to delyuer yt me ,
PASTON,II,424.462.11902

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for yt ys better brent then founde . PASTON,II,424.462.11903

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also your discrecion ought not loth <paren> to take the cost and labour
wolle not be grete nether jmportune </paren> for to sende a man of
purpose to my lord of Bysshop Waltham and to hys councell lerned , ye
wete to whom , for redy serch to be made for the bille of half lefe of
paper , quantite` of my hand , I faythfully delyuered to Maister T.
Danvers for to ovyrsee , of the fyrst appoyntment ye wote off , that ye
desyre so hertly to see , as of othyr manyfolde wrytynges belongyng to
yow and to me . PASTON,II,424.462.11904

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yt ys seyd yn a vers , ' Gutta cauat lapidem non vi set sepe cadendo '
, &c. : PASTON,II,424.462.11905

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
to a slow man or a foryetefull or lothfull a man most be jmportune ,
callyng allway vppon hym tille he hafe hys entent ;
PASTON,II,424.462.11906

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for now thys vacacion to spede , or nevyre shall stand yn yow no stede
. PASTON,II,424.462.11907

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I can no ferther then the walle . PASTON,II,424.462.11908

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , sir , I comyned wyth Doctor Yotton at Camebrygge late , because
there ys no dyvyne service seyd yn the free chapelle at C. that he wold
hafe a grete concience yn yt , and to depart wyth an honest preste
called Sir John Brykkys that ys now duellyng wyth a ry+gt lovyng
kynnesman of yowres ; the seyd doctour gevyng me to aunsuer he wold
comyn wyth yow by Pasch , and the rather wyth your gode wylle wold
depart to such one ye owe affeccion vntoo . PASTON,II,424.462.11909

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sir , I wold as I dar take vppon me to owen your affeccion to the seyd
John Brickys , that he may wyth more help of your cellary hafe the
better to lyve and serf God there to abyde and do yow service also .
PASTON,II,424.462.11910

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I mene faythfullye PASTON,II,424.462.11911

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and soo I pray yow take yt . PASTON,II,424.462.11912

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To remembre a thyng yn seson ys gretely to commend and of a spedy
auauntage . PASTON,II,424.462.11913

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Blessed Trinite` be wyth yow . PASTON,II,424.462.11914

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wret the fyrst day of Marche . PASTON,II,424.462.11915

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To J. P. , c. , at London . PASTON,II,424.462.11916

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your W. Botonere PASTON,II,424.462.11917

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , I had foryete to hafe remembred your maystershyp to hafe a bille
to your baylly Pecok for to delyuer my fermour of Thyrkbye c or ij=c=
lawre and assh , and than to plant yn my tenement at Thyrkbye , or for
as many ye lust ; PASTON,II,424.462.11918

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I lost the last waraunt that ye wrote me truly ,
PASTON,II,424.462.11919

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so I was not served . PASTON,II,424.462.11920

<P_II,425>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Item , yff ye wryte to me hyt hath nede to be by a sure commer ,
PASTON,II,425.462.11921

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I had levyr a letter be brent then lost , ne forte videant Romani
<em> ... </em> . PASTON,II,425.462.11922

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And at reuerence of Jesu that my Robert lose no tyme nether be jdelle ,
for doubt of ymaginacions and temptacions . PASTON,II,425.462.11923

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:63?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_II:MALE:_:1442:36?
LETTER:PASTON_462:M4:1478?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I trust wyth your principalle help to be wyth the worshypfull gentleman
+tat made promysse to yow , &c . PASTON,II,425.462.11924

<Q_PAS_C_1465_T_JMOWBRJR> <L_PASTON_463> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,430>

{ED:784._JOHN_MOWBRAY,_FOURTH_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_1465,_12_OCTOBER}_CO DE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To owre trusty and enterly beloved servaunt John Paston ,
esquyre . </font> PASTON,II,430.463.11925

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Deuke of Norffolk PASTON,II,430.463.11926

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght welbeloved servaunt , y grete yow hertly welle , sertefyng that
we shulle be at fulle age on Fryday nexst comyng . Wherffor , wele
consayled be the lordes off owre consayle and oder off owre consayle ,
that ye , on off owre servauntes off howsholde , with oder , be with vs
at London an Fryday or Saterday nexst comyng at the furdest , too
a-companye vs thann too owre wurshyp ; PASTON,II,430.463.11927

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for we shull have thann levery off owre landes and offyces .
PASTON,II,430.463.11928

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And that ye fayle vs not , as ye woll have owre good lordeshyp in tyme
comyng ; PASTON,II,430.463.11929

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also that ye doo warne owre feede men and servauntes , soche as be
nye too yow , that they be ther thann in owre leverey .
PASTON,II,430.463.11930

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Y-wreton the xij day off October . PASTON,II,430.463.11931

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Norffolk PASTON,II,430.463.11932

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:21
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:21
LETTER:PASTON_463:M4:1465:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
John Paston PASTON,II,430.463.11933

<Q_PAS_C_1469_T_JMOWBRJR> <L_PASTON_464> <A_JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,431>

{ED:786._THE_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK:SAFE-CONDUCT_TO_THE_DEFENDERS_OF_CAIS
TER_1469,_26_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_464:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of Norffolk PASTON,II,431.464.11934

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_464:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Where John Paston , esquier , and other diuers persones haue , ageyn
the peas , kepte the manoir of Caster with force ageyne the wille and
entent of vs the Duc of Norffolk , to oure grete displeaser , whiche
notwithstanding at the comtemplacion of the writing of the moost
worshipfull and reuerent fadir in God the Cardenall of Englond and our
moost trusty <P_II,432> and entierly belouid vnkel the Archebisshop of
Cauntirbury , the right noble prince my lord of Clarence , and other
lordes of oure blood , and also at the grete labour and enstaunce of
our moost dere and singler belouid wiffe , we be agreed that the seid
John Paston and his seid fellasship beyng in the seid manoir shall
depart and goo out of the seid manoir without delay , and make therof
deliueraunce to suche persones as we will assigne , the seid fellasship
hauyng their lyves and goodes , horsse and harneys , and other goodes
beyng in the keping of the seid John Paston , except gonnes ,
crosse-bowes , and quarelles , and alle other hostelmentes to the seid
manoir annexed and belonging ; and to haue xv dayes respyte aftir their
seid departing out to goo in-to what place shall like theim , without
any accions or quarell to be taken or made by vs or in our name to
theim or any of theim , within our fraunchise or without , duryng the
seid tyme . PASTON,II,432.464.11935

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_464:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Youen vndir our signet at Yermouth the xxvj day of Septembre the ix=te=
yere of King Edward the iiij=th= . PASTON,II,432.464.11936

AUTHOR:JOHN_MOWBRAY_JR:MALE:_:1444:25
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:25
LETTER:PASTON_464:M4:1469:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Norffolk PASTON,II,432.464.11937

<Q_PAS_C_1477_FO_EBREWS> <L_PASTON_465> <A_ELIZABETH_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW?> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW?> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,434>

{ED:789._FROM_DAME_ELIZABETH_BREWS_1476-7}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my wurschypfull cosyn John Paston be thys bill delyuered , &c
. </font> PASTON,II,434.465.11938

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wurschypfull cosyn , I recommande me vn-to yowe , thankyng +gowe
hertely for the grette chere +tat +ge made me +te last tyme +tat +ge
were wyth me at Norwych , &c . PASTON,II,434.465.11939

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , as for the mater +tat was put in my nowncle Hastynges and
Herry Heydon , I vndyrstond be myn vncle +tat +ter was made non ende
+terin , whech I am ryght sory for . PASTON,II,434.465.11940

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , +ge be remembred what +ge promysed me , +tat and so were +tat
myn vncle and Herry Heydon made non ende +terin +tat +ge wold put the
mater in me ; PASTON,II,434.465.11941

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and if it please +gowe so for to do , jn good faith , cosyn , I schall
goo as wele and as ryghtfully and consciensly as I can for both the
partyes . PASTON,II,434.465.11942

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , if it please +gowe to com to Topcroft , and poynt +ge
what dey when +ge will com , I schall sende for my cosyn to be +ter the
same day . PASTON,II,434.465.11943

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , I pray +gowe to sende me worde agayn be the brynger of
thys lettur howe +ge will do , &c . PASTON,II,434.465.11944

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty Jesus hafe +gowe in kepyng , &c . PASTON,II,434.465.11945

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_465:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be +gowr cosyn Dame Elizabeth Brews PASTON,II,434.465.11946

<Q_PAS_C_1477?_FO_EBREWS> <L_PASTON_466> <A_ELIZABETH_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW?> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW?> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,435>

{ED:790._FROM_DAME_ELIZABETH_BREWS_PROBABLY_1477}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to my ryght wurschypffull cosyn John Paston be thys letture
delyuered , &c . </font> PASTON,II,435.466.11947

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wurschypfull cosyn , I recommande me $vnto yowe , &c .
PASTON,II,435.466.11948

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I send myn husbonde a bill of the mater +tat +ge knowe of ,
PASTON,II,435.466.11949

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he wrote an other bill to me agayn towchyng the same mater ;
PASTON,II,435.466.11950

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he wold that +ge schuld go vn-to my maistresse yowr modur and asaye
if +ge myght gete the hole xx li. in-to +gowr handes ,
PASTON,II,435.466.11951

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and then he wolde be more gladd to marye wyth +gowe
PASTON,II,435.466.11952

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and will gyffe +gowe an c li . PASTON,II,435.466.11953

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , +tat day +tat sche is maryed my fadur will gyffe hyr l
merk . PASTON,II,435.466.11954

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But and we acorde I schall gyffe yowe a grettur tresure , +tat is a
wytty gentylwoman , and if I sey it , bothe good and vertuos ;
PASTON,II,435.466.11955

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for if I schuld take money for hyr I wold not gyffe hyr for a m=l= li .
PASTON,II,435.466.11956

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But , cosyn , I trust +gowe so meche +tat I wold thynke hyr wele besett
on +gowe and +ge were worthe meche more . PASTON,II,435.466.11957

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , a lytyll aftur +tat +ge were gon come a man fro my cosyn
Derby PASTON,II,435.466.11958

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and broght me wurde +tat suche a chance fell +tat he myght not com at
the day +tat was set , as I schall let +gowe vndyrstond more pleynly
when I speke wyth +gowe , &c . PASTON,II,435.466.11959

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But , cosyn , and it wold please +gowe to com agayn what dey +tat +ge
will set , I dar vndyrtake +tat they schall kepe the same day ;
PASTON,II,435.466.11960

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I wold be glad +tat and myn husbond and +ge myght acorde in thys
maryage +tat it myght be my fortune to make and ende in thys mater
betwene my cosyns and +gowe , +tat yche of +gowe myght love o+ter in
frendely wyse , &c . PASTON,II,435.466.11961

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , if thys byll please not +gowr entent I pray +gowe +tat it
may be brent , &c . PASTON,II,435.466.11962

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
No more vnto yowe at thys tyme , but Almyghty Iesus $preserve +gowe ,
&c . PASTON,II,435.466.11963

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33?
LETTER:PASTON_466:M4:1477?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be +gowr cosyn Dame Elizabeth Brews PASTON,II,435.466.11964

<Q_PAS_C_1477_FO_EBREWS> <L_PASTON_467> <A_ELIZABETH_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW?> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW?> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,435>

{ED:791._FROM_DAME_ELIZABETH_BREWS_1477,_ABOUT_9_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my wuschypfull cosyn John Paston be this bill delyueryd , &c
. </font> PASTON,II,435.467.11965

<P_II,436>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , I recommande me vn-to yowe , thankyng yowe hertely for the
grette chere that +ge made me and all my folkys the last tyme +tat I
was at Norwych . PASTON,II,436.467.11966

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And +ge promysyd me +tat +ge wold neuer breke the mater to Mergery
vn-to suche tyme as +ge and I were at a poynt . PASTON,II,436.467.11967

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
But +ge hafe made hyr suche advokett for yowe +tat I may neuer hafe
rest nyght ner day for callyng and cryeng vppon to brynge the saide
mater to effecte , &c . PASTON,II,436.467.11968

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , cosyn , vppon Fryday is Sent Volentynes Day ,
PASTON,II,436.467.11969

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and euery brydde chesyth hym a make ; PASTON,II,436.467.11970

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yf it lyke yowe to com on Thursday at nyght , and so purvey +gowe
+tat +ge may abyde +ter tyll Monday , I trusty to God +tat +ge schall
so speke to myn husbonde , PASTON,II,436.467.11971

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I schall prey +tat we schall bryng the mater to a conclusyon , &c .
PASTON,II,436.467.11972

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For , cosyn , it is but a sympill oke +tat $is cut down at the firste
stroke ; PASTON,II,436.467.11973

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for +ge will be resonabill , I trust to God , whech hafe yowe euer in
hys mercyfull kepyng , &c . PASTON,II,436.467.11974

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_467:M4:1477:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be +gowr cosyn Dame Elizabeth Brews , o+terwes schall be called be
Goddys grace . PASTON,II,436.467.11975

<Q_PAS_A_1477_T_TKELA> <L_PASTON_468> <A_THOMAS_KELA> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,436>

{ED:792._FROM_THOMAS_KELA_1477,_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> Vn-to my ryght wurschypfull maistur John Paston , swhyer , be
this bill deliuered , &c . </font> PASTON,II,436.468.11976

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ryght wurschypfull ser , I recommande me vn-to yowe , lettyng +gowe
knowe as for the +gonge gentylwoman sche owyth +gowe hyr good herte and
love , as I knowe be +te comynicacion +tat I hafe hade wyth hyr for +te
same . PASTON,II,436.468.11977

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , ser , +ge knowe what my maistur and my lady hath profered wyth
hyr cc merke , PASTON,II,436.468.11978

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I dar sey +tat hyr chambur and areyment schall be worthe c merk ;
PASTON,II,436.468.11979

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I harde my lady sey +tat and the case required both +ge and sche
schuld hafe +gowr borde wyth my lady iij +gere aftur .
PASTON,II,436.468.11980

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I vndurstand by my lady +tat sche wold +tat +ge schuld labur +te
mater to my maistur , PASTON,II,436.468.11981

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for it schuld be the bettur . PASTON,II,436.468.11982

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I harde my lady sey +tat it was a febill oke +tat was kut down at
the first stroke ; PASTON,II,436.468.11983

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +ge be beholdyng vn-to my lady for hyr good wurde ,
PASTON,II,436.468.11984

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for sche hath neuer preysyd +gowe to mech . PASTON,II,436.468.11985

<P_II,437>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Ser , lyke as I promysyd +gowe , I am +gowr man PASTON,II,437.468.11986

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and my good will +ge schall hafe in worde and dede , &c .
PASTON,II,437.468.11987

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Iesus hafe +gowe in hys mercyfull kepyng , &c .
PASTON,II,437.468.11988

AUTHOR:THOMAS_KELA:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:33
LETTER:PASTON_468:M4:1477:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be +gowr man Ser Thomas Kela PASTON,II,437.468.11989

<Q_PAS_A_1479_T_WLOMNOR> <L_PASTON_469> <A_WILLIAM_LOMNOR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,437>

{ED:793._FROM_WILLIAM_LOMNOR_1479,_28_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the ryght worchypfull John Paston , sqvyer , yn hast .
</font> PASTON,II,437.469.11990

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
My Master Paston , I recomaunde me to yow , preyyng God to haue mercy
on my master your brothere sowle , to whom ye ar heyre , and also to my
mastras your grauntdam . Wherfore be th'auyse of my mastras your carful
modere , your brothere Edmond on Sunday next before Sent Andrew rod to
Marlyngforth , and before alle the tenauntez examyned on James , kepere
there for Will Paston , where he was the weke next before Sent Andrew ;
PASTON,II,437.469.11991

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and there he seyd that he was not at Marlyngforth from the Monday vnto
the Thorday at eveyn , PASTON,II,437.469.11992

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and soo there was no man there but your brothers man at the tyme of his
decese . PASTON,II,437.469.11993

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
So be that your brothere dyyd sesid , and your brothere E. bad your man
kepe possession to your behoffe and warned the tenauntez to pay noo man
til ye hadde spoke them . So $me $semyth {TEXT:mesemyth} +tat is a
remyttire to your old taylyd titell ; comon with your concell .
PASTON,II,437.469.11994

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For+ter , at after-noon he was at Oxned to vnderstande how they had doo
, PASTON,II,437.469.11995

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and Peris kepyd your brotheres possession at that tyme ;
PASTON,II,437.469.11996

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and your vncle his man was not there , PASTON,II,437.469.11997

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but he assyned anothere pore man to be +ter . PASTON,II,437.469.11998

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Whethere that contynued the possession of W. Paston or not be remembrid
, &c . PASTON,II,437.469.11999

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And after the decesse , &c. , W. Paston sent the man +tat kepyd
possession to-fore to entre and kepe possession , wheche was noo warent
be tha poyntment PASTON,II,437.469.12000

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for ye stande at your liberte` as for ony apoyntment or comvnycacion
hadde before ; PASTON,II,437.469.12001

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and soo men seme it were good for yow to stande at large til ye here
more . PASTON,II,437.469.12002

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yf ye myght haue my lord Chamberleyns good fauer and lordship it were
ryght expedyent . PASTON,II,437.469.12003

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
As for my lord of Ely , dele not with hym be owre auyse ,
PASTON,II,437.469.12004

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he woll moue for trete` and ell be displesid .
PASTON,II,437.469.12005

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your brothere Edmond sent to John Wymondham , PASTON,II,437.469.12006

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he sent word he wolle be a mene of trete` but wold take noo parte ,
PASTON,II,437.469.12007

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as I sopose +tat was be Heydons avyse ; PASTON,II,437.469.12008

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for your vncle sent to me to be with hym , PASTON,II,437.469.12009

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also the same man rodd to Heydon and <P_II,438> Wymondham , &c .
PASTON,II,438.469.12010

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The brenger of this letter can tell , PASTON,II,438.469.12011

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he was with your brothere E. at these placez .
PASTON,II,438.469.12012

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
For+ter , my mastras your moder gretyth yow well
PASTON,II,438.469.12013

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and sendyth yow here blessyng , requiryng yow to come oute of that here
alsone as ye may . PASTON,II,438.469.12014

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And your brothere E. comaundid hym to yow , PASTON,II,438.469.12015

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he doth hys dylygens and parte for yow full well and saddely yn
many behalvys PASTON,II,438.469.12016

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and hath brought my maistras your wife to Topcrofte on Friday laste ,
PASTON,II,438.469.12017

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and they fare all well there ; PASTON,II,438.469.12018

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and he yntendith to see my $Master FitzWater , whech lythe at Freton
ner Long Stratton . PASTON,II,438.469.12019

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And I $pray God be your gide yn all your maters and brenge yow sone
home . PASTON,II,438.469.12020

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_LOMNOR:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:35
LETTER:PASTON_469:M4:1479:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Norwyche on Sonday at nyght next before Sent Andrew and
delyuerd on Monday next be the morwyn . Be your W. Lomnour
PASTON,II,438.469.12021

<Q_PAS_C_1483?_T_WHASTINGS> <L_PASTON_470> <A_WILLIAM_HASTINGS>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1430?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,439>

{ED:795._FROM_WILLIAM_LORD_HASTINGS_PROBABLY_1483,_26_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and welbeloued seruaunt John Paston , squier
. </font> PASTON,II,439.470.12022

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
John Paston , I recommaunde me vnto you . PASTON,II,439.470.12023

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
And where as I appointed and desired you to goo ouer vnto Guysnes to
yeue youre attendaunce and assistence vpon my brothre Ser Rauf
Hastinges in all suche thinges as concerne the suretie and defense of
the castell of Guysnes during his infirmyties , it is shewed vnto me
that ye haue full truely and diligently acquyted you vnto my saide
brothre in all his besynesses sithe youre commyng thider , whereof I
thanke you hertly . PASTON,II,439.470.12024

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
And as I conceiue to my grete comfort and gladnesse , my saide brothre
is wele recouered and amended , thanked be God ,
PASTON,II,439.470.12025

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
and soo I truste he may nowe spare you . Wherupon I haue writen vnto
him , if he may soo doo , to licence you to come ouer vnto me ayen ;
wherefore I woll and desire you , th'assent of my saide brothre had ,
to dispose you to come ouer in all goodly haste , aswele for suche
grete maters as I fele by youre frendes ye haue to doo here as to yeue
youre attendaunce vpon me . PASTON,II,439.470.12026

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
And youre retourne {TEXT:ye} shall be to me welecome .
PASTON,II,439.470.12027

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
From London the xxvj day of Aurill . PASTON,II,439.470.12028

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
I pray yov in no wice to depart as yet without my brothers Roaf asent
and agrement ; PASTON,II,439.470.12029

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
and recommaund me to my syster , all my nieces , to +te Constabyll ,
and to all ryues . PASTON,II,439.470.12030

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HASTINGS:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39?
LETTER:PASTON_470:M4:1483?:COPY:OTHER
Your tru frend Hastynges PASTON,II,439.470.12031

<Q_PAS_A_1480S_T_EDELAPOLE> <L_PASTON_471> <A_ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1444> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,442>

{ED:798._ELIZABETH_DUCHESS_OF_SUFFOLK_PROBABLY_AFTER_1479,_NOT_AFT
ER_JUNE_1483}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> On-to Jon Paston in hast . </font> PASTON,II,442.471.12032

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mastyr Paston , I pray yow +tat jt may plese yow to leue yowr logeyng
for iij or foro days tyl I may be porved of anodyr ,
PASTON,II,442.471.12033

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I schal do as musche to yowr plesyr . PASTON,II,442.471.12034

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Godys sake say me not nay ; PASTON,II,442.471.12035

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I pray yow rekomaund me to my Lord Chambyrleyn .
PASTON,II,442.471.12036

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_DE_LA_POLE:FEMALE:_:1444:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_471:M4:1480S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr frend Elizabeth PASTON,II,442.471.12037

<Q_PAS_C_1483_T_JHOWARD> <L_PASTON_472> <A_JOHN_HOWARD> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1430?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,442>

{ED:799._FROM_JOHN_HOWARD,_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_1483,_10_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right welbeloued frynde John Paston be this deliured in
hast . </font> PASTON,II,442.472.12038

<P_II,443>

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
Right welbeloued frynde , I commaunde me to you .
PASTON,II,443.472.12039

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
It is soo that the Kentysshmen be vp in the Weld , and sey that they
wol com and robbe the cite` , which I shall lett yf I may .
PASTON,II,443.472.12040

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
Therfore I pray you that with alle dilligence ye make you redy and com
hidder , and bring with you six talle felaws in harnesse ;
PASTON,II,443.472.12041

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
and ye shall not lyse your labour , PASTON,II,443.472.12042

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
that knaweth God , whoo haue you in his keping .
PASTON,II,443.472.12043

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
Written at London the x=th= day of Octobre . PASTON,II,443.472.12044

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:53?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:39
LETTER:PASTON_472:M4:1483:COPY:OTHER
+Gower frend J. Norffolk PASTON,II,443.472.12045

<Q_PAS_C_1485_T_JHOWARD> <L_PASTON_473> <A_JOHN_HOWARD> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1430?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,443>

{ED:801._FROM_JOHN_HOWARD,_DUKE_OF_NORFOLK_1485,_ABOUT_12_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my welbelovyd frend John Paston be thys byll delyveryd in
hast . </font> PASTON,II,443.473.12046

<P_II,444>

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
Welbelovyd frend , I cummaunde me to yow , letyng yow to vndyrstond
that +te Kynges enmysse be a lond and +tat the Kyng wold hafe set forth
as vppon Monday but only for Howre Lady Day ; PASTON,II,444.473.12047

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
but for serten he gothe forward as vppon Tewsday ,
PASTON,II,444.473.12048

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
for a servant of myne browt to me the sertente` . Werfor I pray yow
that +ge met with me at Bery , for be the grace of God I purposse $to
lye at Bery as vppon Tewsday nyght , and that +ge brynge with yow seche
company of tall men as +ge may goodly make at my cost and charge ,
be-syd that +ge have promysyd the Kyng ; PASTON,II,444.473.12049

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
and I pray yow ordeyne them jaketes of my leverey ,
PASTON,II,444.473.12050

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
and I schall contente yow at your metyng with me .
PASTON,II,444.473.12051

AUTHOR:JOHN_HOWARD:MALE:_:1430?:55?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_473:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER
+Gower lover J. Norffolk PASTON,II,444.473.12052

<Q_PAS_C_1485?_T_EHOWARD> <L_PASTON_474> <A_ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,444>

{ED:802._ELIZABETH_COUNTESS_OF_SURREY_PROBABLY_1485,_3_OCTOBER}_CO DE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To myn ryght worshiepfull cosyn John Paston , esqvyer . </font>
PASTON,II,444.474.12053

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Myn ryght worshipfull cosyn , I recomawnde me hertly to you , thankyng
you of your greet kyndnes and lovyng disposicion towardys myn lord and
me at all tymes , which I pray God I may leve to see the acquytell
ther-of to your plesure , prayeng you of your good continuauns .
PASTON,II,444.474.12054

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , I shewyd you myn mynde that I wolde have myn shildern to Thorp
, wher-in , God yelde you , it pleasyd you to sey that I shulde have
hors of you to help to conveye them thyder ; PASTON,II,444.474.12055

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but now I vndirstonde myn Lord FitzWalter hath dischargyd myn lordys
seruauntys thens , affermyng vp-on them that they shulde have had
vnsittyng langage of the Kyngys Grace . PASTON,II,444.474.12056

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Cosyn , I trust that ye and all the jentilmen of the shire which have
had knowleche of myn lordys seruauntys kan sey that her-to-for they
have <P_II,445> not ben of that disposicion to be lavas of theyr tvngys
whan they had moore cause of booldnes than they have nowe .
PASTON,II,445.474.12057

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I wolde not have thowght myn Lord FitzWalter wolde have takyn so
ferforth displeasure for the keepyng of x or xij men at Thorp ;
PASTON,II,445.474.12058

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I woot weell ther exceded not iij mees meet , good and bad .
PASTON,II,445.474.12059

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I trust all thow I weer a soel wooman to mayntene so many at the leeste
, what so evyr I dyde moore . PASTON,II,445.474.12060

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I trustyd to have fowndyn myn Lord FitzWalter better lord to me , seyng
whan I was wyth myn lord of Oxenforth vp-on myn desyre and request at
that tyme made vn-to hym he promysed me to be good lord to myn lord and
me , wher-of I praye you to put hym in remembrauns , trustyng yit be
the meene of you to fynde hym better lord to me her-aftyr .
PASTON,II,445.474.12061

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I have fownde myn lord of Oxenforth singuler very good and kynde lord
to myn lord and me , and stedefaste in hys promys , wher-by he hath
wonne myn lordys service as longe as he leevyth and me to be hys trewe
beedwoman terme of myn lyve ; PASTON,II,445.474.12062

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for hym I drede mooste , PASTON,II,445.474.12063

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and yit as hytherto I fynde hym beste . PASTON,II,445.474.12064

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray you , good cosyn , the rather by your meane that I may have the
continuauns of hys good lordship , PASTON,II,445.474.12065

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and to myn poore power I truste to deserve it . PASTON,II,445.474.12066

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray you , cosyn , that thys byll may recomawnde $me to myn Lady
Brews and to myn cosyn your wyf . PASTON,II,445.474.12067

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
From Mynster in the Yle of Shepey the iij=de= day of Octobre .
PASTON,II,445.474.12068

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I pray you yeve credens to the berer of thys , and to Thomas Jenney
whan he comyth to you . PASTON,II,445.474.12069

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_HOWARD[N.TILNEY]:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41?
LETTER:PASTON_474:M4:1485?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yovr faythefovel cosyene E. Svrrey PASTON,II,445.474.12070

<Q_PAS_C_1485_T_JDELAPOLE> <L_PASTON_475> <A_JOHN_DE_LA_POLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1442> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,445>

{ED:803._FROM_JOHN_DE_LA_POLE,_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK_1485,_20_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To our trusty and welbeloued John Paston , shiriff of Suffolk
and Norffolk . </font> PASTON,II,445.475.12071

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
The Duc of Suffolk PASTON,II,445.475.12072

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right welbeloued , we grete you well . PASTON,II,445.475.12073

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for asmuche as the King our souereigne lord hath late addressed his
lettres of comission vndre his seale vnto vs , reciting by the same
that his Highnesse vndrestondith certayn his rebells associate to his
old enmys of Scotlond , entending not only to <P_II,446> trowble his
peax , the nobles and subiectes of $this Realme to distroy , their
goodes and possessions to spoyll and reward at thair liberties , but
also the <em> lawes of this </em> lond and Holy Chirche to subuert .
Our said moost drad souerayn lord , as a Cristen <em> prince ... of
</em> his said enmys and rebels to resist , hath assigned and comaunded
vs to do all maner <em> ... </em> and otheres defensible able to labour
, aswell archers as hobbyllers , to come before vs and charge them ,
<em> ... </em> armed and arayed euery man aftre his degre` and power ,
to attend vppon his person and vppon vs to do him $seruice in defence
aswell of the Chirche as of the said nobles and subiectes of this
Realme against his said enmys and rebels . PASTON,II,446.475.12074

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
We therfore wull , and in our said souereigne lordes name straitly
charge and comaunde you , that in all possible hast ye do this to be
proclamed ; and that all maner men able to do the King seruice , aswell
knightes , esquiers , and gentilmen as townships and hundredes , aswell
within franchesse and liberte`s as without , within the counties of
Suffolk and Norffolk , and that thay be charged to be redy at all tymes
, vppon an howre warnyng , and ordered according to the last comission
afore this , to attend vppon his Grace and vppon vs to do him seruice
whan so ever thay $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} comaunded ; not failing
herof as ye wull answer at your perile . PASTON,II,446.475.12075

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Yoven at Long Stratton the xx day of Octobre . PASTON,II,446.475.12076

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And forthermore that ye yeve credence vnto our seruaunt this bringer ;
as this same day we receyued the Kinges commission at iiij aftre none .
PASTON,II,446.475.12077

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_LA_POLE:MALE:_:1442:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:41
LETTER:PASTON_475:M4:1485:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Suffolk , your frende PASTON,II,446.475.12078

<Q_PAS_C_1486_T_MDEVERE> <L_PASTON_476> <A_MARGARET_DE_VERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,447>

{ED:805._FROM_MARGARET_COUNTESS_OF_OXFORD_1486,_19_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusti and welbeloued John Paston , shrieve of
Norffolk and Suffolk . </font> PASTON,II,447.476.12079

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusti and welbiloued , I recommaund me vnto you .
PASTON,II,447.476.12080

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for as moche as I ame credebly enfourmed that Fraunceis , late
Lorde Lovell , is now of late resorted into the Yle of Ely to the
entente , by alle lykelyhod , to finde the waies and meanes to gete him
shipping and passage in your costes , or ellis to resorte ageyn to
seintuary if he can or maie , I therfor hertily desire and praie you ,
and neuerthelesse in the Kinges name streitly chargie you , that ye in
all goodly haste endevoire yourself that suche wetche or othir meanes
be vsed and hadde in the poortes , crekes , and othre places wher ye
thinke nescessary by your discrecion to the letting of his seid
<P_II,448> purpose ; and that ye also vse all the waies ye can or maie
by your wisedom to the taking of the same late Lorde Lovell .
PASTON,II,448.476.12081

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And what pleasur ye maie doo to the Kinges grace in this matier I am
sure is not to you vnknowen . PASTON,II,448.476.12082

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And God kepe you . PASTON,II,448.476.12083

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretyn at Lauenham the xix day of Maij . PASTON,II,448.476.12084

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_476:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Margaret Oxynford PASTON,II,448.476.12085

<Q_PAS_C_1486_T_JRADCLIFFE> <L_PASTON_477> <A_JOHN_RADCLIFFE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1452?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,448>

{ED:806._FROM_JOHN_LORD_FITZWALTER_1486,_19_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_477:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right wurshipfull cosyn John Paston , esquyer . </font>
PASTON,II,448.477.12086

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_477:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right wurshipfull cosyn , I recomaunde me to you , certifyeng you that
, where as I vnderstond ye haue distreyned Richard Caus of Hyngham for
issuez ronne vppon hym in th'Escheker to the summe of iiij li. and odde
syluer , I pray you that ye wull the rather for my sake shewe hym the
favour that ye may doo , savyng youre sylfe , and that ye wull not be
harde vppon hym but if ye kan by th'aduys of councell this next terme
fynde the meanes for youre discharge vppon youre acompte in th'Escheker
that than ye wull lete hym be so in reste and peas withoute more
paymentz for that cause ; the which I prey you to tendre the rather
because I fynde the seid Richard Caus at all tymez my trewe seruaunt ,
and I shall be as redy to the acomplyshment of all youre resonable
desirez , with Goddis grace , who kepe you . PASTON,II,448.477.12087

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_477:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At Attelburgh this Tuesday next before Seint Mathuz Day .
PASTON,II,448.477.12088

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:34?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:42
LETTER:PASTON_477:M4:1486:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
+Gowr cosyn and frend J. Sieur FytzWauter PASTON,II,448.477.12089

<Q_PAS_A_1487_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_478> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,448>

{ED:807._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1487,_24_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusty and right welbelovyd councellour John Paston
, esquier . </font> PASTON,II,448.478.12090

<P_II,449>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
John Paston , I comaund me to you . PASTON,II,449.478.12091

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And as for such tithyngys as ye haue sent hider , the Kyng had knowlech
therof more than a sevynnyght passed ; PASTON,II,449.478.12092

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as for such names as ye haue sent , supposyng theym to be gone with
the Lord Lovell , they be yitt in England , PASTON,II,449.478.12093

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for he is departyng with xiiij personys and no moo .
PASTON,II,449.478.12094

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At the Kyngys comyng to London I wold advise you to see his Highnes .
PASTON,II,449.478.12095

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty God kepe you . PASTON,II,449.478.12096

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Wyndesore the xxiiij=th= day of January .
PASTON,II,449.478.12097

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:43
LETTER:PASTON_478:M4:1487:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,449.478.12098

<Q_PAS_C_1488?_T_AFITZHUGH> <L_PASTON_479> <A_ALICE_FITZHUGH>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,455>

{ED:813._FROM_ALICE_LADY_FITZHUGH_PROBABLY_1488,_23_FEBRUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusty and welbelouede son Sir John Paston be +tis
delyuerede . </font> PASTON,II,455.479.12099

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Son Paston , I recommaunde me to you in my moste hertely maner .
PASTON,II,455.479.12100

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And wher I vnderstonde be my doghtir Louell ye desire to know whedir I
woll haue +te bargan ye made for me in Norwich or nay , and if I wol I
moste content ther-for now in Marcce , son , in good faith it is so I
shal receyve no money of the revenowse of my lyvelode afor Mydsomour ;
PASTON,II,455.479.12101

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and also I haue payd accordyng to my promisse to Sir William Cabell
<P_II,456> a great payment +te which ye knowe wel was due to be payde ,
so that I can not be of power to content ther-for , for the which I ame
right sory , PASTON,II,456.479.12102

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I knowe well I shall never haue such a bargane .
PASTON,II,456.479.12103

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also my doghtyr Louell makith great sute and labour for my sone hir
husbonde . PASTON,II,456.479.12104

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Sir Edwarde Franke hath ben in the north to inquire for hym .
PASTON,II,456.479.12105

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
He is comyn agayne , PASTON,II,456.479.12106

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and cane nogth vnderstonde wher he is ; wherfor her beneuoleres willith
hir to continve hir sute and labour . PASTON,II,456.479.12107

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And so I can not departe nor leue hir , as ye knowe well ;
PASTON,II,456.479.12108

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and if I might be ther I wold be full glad , as knowith our Lorde God ,
whoo haue you in his blisside kepyng . PASTON,II,456.479.12109

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Frome London the xxiij=th= day of February . PASTON,II,456.479.12110

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHUGH:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_479:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Your loving modir Alise Lady Fitzhugh PASTON,II,456.479.12111

<Q_PAS_C_1488?_T_JRADCLIFFE> <L_PASTON_480> <A_JOHN_RADCLIFFE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1452?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,456>

{ED:814._FROM_JOHN_LORD_FITZWALTER_ABOUT_1488,_7_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right worshipfull cosyn Syre John Paston , knight , be
thys lettre delyuered . </font> PASTON,II,456.480.12112

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
Right worshipfull cosyn , in my most herty wise I $recommaund me to you
. PASTON,II,456.480.12113

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
And where I am enfourmed that ye haue takyn a disthresse within <em>
the Duchy </em> of Lankastire for suche money as was commyng toward you
of ryght for the tym that ye were shiryef , me seme , cosyn , ye $ought
$not {TEXT:oughtnot} to take it within the said Duchy of noon auncyen
demen holdyn vpon the King ; PASTON,II,456.480.12114

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
for ther be places jnow to gadir it vpon without the said auncyen
demene , PASTON,II,456.480.12115

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
and so ye $can $not {TEXT:cannot} lose it . PASTON,II,456.480.12116

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
And also , cosyn , I am enfourmed that it is paied alredy to oon John
Burnam , which is of sufficyency jnow , for whiche cause me semyth it
were reson to leuey it vpon hym than ther where as is noon auctorite`
to leuey it vpon . Wherfore , cosyn , I pray you to be good mastire for
my sake to thies pore men which be the Kingz tenauntz , and to shew
them the fauour that ye may . PASTON,II,456.480.12117

<P_II,457>

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
And I shall be asglad to doo you asgret plesure in tym commyng , by
Goddz grace , who preserue you . PASTON,II,457.480.12118

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn at Attylborow the vij daie of Apryll . PASTON,II,457.480.12119

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:36?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_480:M4:1488?:COPY:OTHER
+Gowir cosyn and frend $J Sieur FytzWauter PASTON,II,457.480.12120

<Q_PAS_C_1488?_FO_EBREWS> <L_PASTON_481> <A_ELIZABETH_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW?> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW?> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,457>

{ED:815._FROM_DAME_ELIZABETH_BREWS_ABOUT_1488}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right worshipfull son Ser John Paston , knyght , be this
delyverd . </font> PASTON,II,457.481.12121

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull son , I recommaund me vn-to you and to my lady my
doughtere youre wyfe , PASTON,II,457.481.12122

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I send you both Cristes blyssyng and myne . PASTON,II,457.481.12123

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , son , I thank you hertely for my son William Brews ,
PASTON,II,457.481.12124

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and I moste pray you for +te reuerens of Jesu to help hym for youre
tenauntes and myne , PASTON,II,457.481.12125

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
or els John Dynne will owuere-rewle them . PASTON,II,457.481.12126

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , son , God thank you , ye helpyd ons Whyte of Metfeld ,
PASTON,II,457.481.12127

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and so I must besech you nowe to do , and +tat it wold pleas you to
gyffe credans vnto the Priour of +te Whyte Freres ,
PASTON,II,457.481.12128

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for I haue shewed vn-to hym my mynd , PASTON,II,457.481.12129

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and as ye do I hold me content . PASTON,II,457.481.12130

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And , son , we ladys and jentil-women in this contrey that is wedows be
sore trobyld with the Bysshop of Chestere , PASTON,II,457.481.12131

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and haskith of vs more than we may pay ; PASTON,II,457.481.12132

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and +tat knowith All-myghty Jesu , who haue you in hys blysset kepyng .
PASTON,II,457.481.12133

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:44?
LETTER:PASTON_481:M4:1488?:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Be youre modere Dam Elizabeth Brews PASTON,II,457.481.12134

<Q_PAS_C_1489?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_482> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,458>

{ED:817._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PERHAPS_1489,_12_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

<P_II,459>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the righte worshipfull and my righte intierly belouyd Ser
John Paston , knyghte . </font> PASTON,II,459.482.12135

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Righte worshipfull and righte intierly belouyd , I commaunde me to you
. PASTON,II,459.482.12136

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And acording to the Kyng our souerayne lordis commaundemente late to me
addressid , I desire and pray you that ye woll in all godely haste upon
the sighte herof prepare youre-selfe to be in a redinesse with as many
personnes as ye herbyfore grauntid to do the Kyng seruyce in my company
diffensibely arayed , and therupon so to resorte vnto me in all godely
haste possyble upon a day warnyng , horsid and harnessid , to be at the
Kynges wayges . PASTON,II,459.482.12137

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And God kepe you . PASTON,II,459.482.12138

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at my castelle of Hedingham the xij day of Marche .
PASTON,II,459.482.12139

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45?
LETTER:PASTON_482:M4:1489?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,459.482.12140

<Q_PAS_C_1489_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_483> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,459>

{ED:818._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1489,_30_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right welbeloued Ser John Paston
, knyght . </font> PASTON,II,459.483.12141

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right welbeloued , I comaunde me to you .
PASTON,II,459.483.12142

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for asmoche as it is certeinly vnto the Kynges grace shewed that my
lord of Northumberland , havyng the auctorite` to se the Kynges money
levied in <P_II,460> the north parties , had knowleche that certeyne
persones of comvnes wer assembled at Topclif and at a nother lordship
of his nygh to the same , sayng that they wolde pay no money , my seid
lord of Northumberland heryng therof , and that they wer but naked men
, addressed hym-self towardes theym withoute eny harneys in pesible
maner , trustyng to haue appeased theym . PASTON,II,460.483.12143

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Howe be it as hit is seid that he is distressed , and that they haue
taken hym or slayne hym , whiche the Kyng entendeth to punysshe . I
therfore desire and hertely pray you in all godely haste to be with me
at Hedyngham , there for to knowe more clierly the Kynges plesir in
this behalue . PASTON,II,460.483.12144

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at Hertford the last day of Aprile . PASTON,II,460.483.12145

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also I send to you a comyssion of licence to shepp corne , which I pray
you to do to be proclaymed in all haste . PASTON,II,460.483.12146

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_483:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,460.483.12147

<Q_PAS_C_1489_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_484> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,460> {ED:819._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1489,_6_MAY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right welbeloued counceilour Ser
John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,460.484.12148

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right welbeloued counceilour , I comaunde me to
you . PASTON,II,460.484.12149

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as I vnderstand by your wrytyng that a grete shippe is
perisshed with you in thoo parties , and that ye haue ben gretely
occupied aboute the savyng of the goodes of the same , and that the
merchauntes therof ben disposed to put their wynes to sale , of the
whiche ye may by a ton for c s. and litel more ; I may by in this
cuntrey for iiij li . Wherfore if ye may by there eny better chepe , I
pray you to purveye for me such as ye seme neccessary .
PASTON,II,460.484.12150

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for somoche as ye may nat be here with me at this tyme , I desire
and pray you to prepare and ordeyne your-self with as many men in
harneys as {with}_P ye godely may , to do the Kyng seruice in my
company at the Kynges charge and costes , so as ye and they may be with
me at Cambrige vpon Tewesday next comyng ; and that ye faile nat herof
, as my right especial trust is in you . PASTON,II,460.484.12151

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at my castell of Hedyngham the vj day of May .
PASTON,II,460.484.12152

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:45
LETTER:PASTON_484:M4:1489:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,460.484.12153

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_FO_EBREWS> <L_PASTON_485> <A_ELIZABETH_BREWS>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_MOTHER-IN-LAW?> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON-IN-LAW?> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,461>

{ED:820._DAME_ELIZABETH_BREWS_NOT_BEFORE_JUNE_1487_OR_AFTER_1495}_ @

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<font> To my rytth worchupfull son Ser Jon Paston be thys byll delyvyrd
jn hast . </font> PASTON,II,461.485.12154

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryth worchupfull son , I recommend me on-to +gow and to my lady +gowyr
wyff , and thank-yng +gow harttyly for the grett labyr thatt +ge had on
Thorysday for me , and for +gowyr kynd-nes ; PASTON,II,461.485.12155

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for and odyr had don asse +ge ded I had had my purpos , qwer-for I prey
God do be them asse they do be me . PASTON,II,461.485.12156

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Son , I must prey +gow to hawe a dosseyn men in harnes wyth bowyss and
wepyn convenyent for them , thatt I may feche my stres ageyn .
PASTON,II,461.485.12157

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The schrevyss man wasse her wythe me PASTON,II,461.485.12158

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and <em> j of </em> +gowre , he seyth he ys , PASTON,II,461.485.12159

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and he hatth mad me feythful promes +tat he wol be wyth me ageyn on
Monday ; qwer-for I prey +gow harttyly , son , and reqwere +gow , +tat
+gowyr men may be wyth me on Monday , ass my wery tross yss jn +gow ,
qwo sknowyth blyssyd Jesu , hom haff +gow and +gowyr jn yss keppyng .
PASTON,II,461.485.12160

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_BREWS:FEMALE:MOTHER_IN_LAW?:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:SON_IN_LAW?:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_485:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Be +gowyr trew modyr Dam Elysabethe Brewysse PASTON,II,461.485.12161

<Q_PAS_C_1491?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_486> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,462>

{ED:822._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_1491,_27_MARCH}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right intierly welbelouyd
counsellour Ser John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,462.486.12162

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right intierly welbelouyd councellour , I comaund
me hartely to you . PASTON,II,462.486.12163

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And forasmoche as for certayne especiall causes moving there be
sessions appoynted to be holden at Gyppiswiche the Friday sevenyght
aftre Estre , which shall be the xv day of Aprile , where I purpose
then certaynly to be , and to haue aswell the matere by-twene Ser
Edmounde Benyngfeld and Yelverton there to be harde and commenyd as
diuerse othre grete maters in that contrey necessary to be had in
comynycacion , I therfor desire and pray you that ye fayle nat to be
there the same day , bryngyng with you the forseide Yelverton ,
trusting that then suche direccion <P_II,463> shall be takyn in that
matere as can be thought resonable and to the weale of the parties ;
nat doubting but that Ser Edmound Benyngfeld shall be there in like
wise . PASTON,II,463.486.12164

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty God kepe you . PASTON,II,463.486.12165

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretin at my castell of Hedingham the xxvij day of Marche .
PASTON,II,463.486.12166

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_486:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,463.486.12167

<Q_PAS_C_1491?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_487> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,463>

{ED:823._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_PROBABLY_ABOUT_1491,_31_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right welbeloued Ser John Paston
, knyght . </font> PASTON,II,463.487.12168

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right welbeloued , I comaunde me to you .
PASTON,II,463.487.12169

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as I late receyued your wrytyng beryng date the xxvj day of
this present monthe , by the whiche I vnderstand that one Richard Calle
toke certeyne men of werre roovyng vpon the coste there ; and in
somoche as I vnderstand that they be vnder the obeissaunce of the Kyng
of Denmarke , I wolle and desyre you that ye delyuer theym vnto the
seid Richard Calle to take his avauntage of theym as prisoners , seyng
my dutee reserued in euery thyng , as my trust is in you .
PASTON,II,463.487.12170

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty God kepe you . PASTON,II,463.487.12171

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at my castell of Hedyngham the last day of Jule .
PASTON,II,463.487.12172

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_487:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,463.487.12173

<Q_PAS_C_1491?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_488> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,467>

{ED:827._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_ABOUT_1491,_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right intierly welbelouyd
councellour Ser John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,467.488.12174

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right intierly welbelouyd councellour , I comaund
me to you . PASTON,II,467.488.12175

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where as I vndirstond by your writing to me delyuerid by this berar
, the roborye and dispoyling of certayn corvers of Holond and Selond
done by the shipp callyd the <font> Foole </font> , wherof Robert
Spenser was maister , aswell in herryng , vitayle , and takelyng , as
ye be enfourmyd by iij personnys of the same shippe , and of th'entent
and disposicion of the master and feleshyp of the same , whiche shewe ,
as ye write , that Barkeley , aswell with that shipp as with a prise
that he hathe bought late takyn of the Frenchemen , were disposid and
determenyd to do myche harme , wherupon ye haue indevorid you to breke
the same ; how be hit that the seid Barkeley hath be late with me and
found suertie in a c li. to answer to all suche demeanyng when he shall
be callyd , and therupon I wrote to you to suffre hym , his men , and
shippis to departe at libertie . Yet neuyrtheles , concidering your
large writing , I can nat be content in my mynde to suche tyme as I may
here bothe you and Barkeley to-geder ; PASTON,II,467.488.12176

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
willing <em> therfore ... </em> kepe the shippys and goodys in suertie
and to be with me your-selfe <em> ... </em> well may , bryngyng with
you suche iij personnys as <em> haue ... certaynte` </em> of this mater
. PASTON,II,467.488.12177

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And so I haue wretin to <em> Barkeley ... </em> se to answer to the
same . PASTON,II,467.488.12178

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And God kepe you . PASTON,II,467.488.12179

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Wretin <em> ... of </em> Octobre . PASTON,II,467.488.12180

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,467.488.12181

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_488:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Also yf $ther be eny of the <em> Duchemen ... </em> any sute for ther
gode , that ye then cause one of <em> ... </em> to shewe and clayme
ther owne . PASTON,II,467.488.12182

<Q_PAS_C_1491?_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_489> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,468>

{ED:828._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_ABOUT_1491,_28_OCTOBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right welbeloued counceilour Ser
John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,468.489.12183

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right worshipfull and right welbeloued counceilour , I comaunde me to
you , certifieng you that I wolde haue be right glad to haue had you ,
the iij persones that enfourmed you of Berkeleys demenyng , and
Berkeley togeder , to th'entent that I myght haue had ripe knowleche of
their demenyng , to haue shewed the Kynge at my comyng vnto his Grace .
PASTON,II,468.489.12184

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Neuertheles , sith I vnderstand by your late wrytyng , to me brought by
the seid Berkeley the xxviij day of this present monthe , beryng date
the Monday next before Seynt Symond Day and Jude , that ther is nat so
grete defaute in the same Berkeley as ye by your former writinges to me
sent wend ther had be , and that the defaute , if eny be , is in one
Spenser , maister of the shippe belongyng to the seid Berkeley , and
that ye thynke also that such suretee as I haue take of the same
Berkeley is sufficient jnogh , better or more than nedeth for that
cause , and that in your mynde ye thynke he woll be of gode guydyng and
demenyng in tyme comyng , I woll and desire you that ye delyuer hym his
shippes , men , and goodes , accordyng to my first wrytyng to you sent
in that behalue . PASTON,II,468.489.12185

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almyghty God kepe you . PASTON,II,468.489.12186

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen at my castell of Hedingham the xxviij day of Octobre .
PASTON,II,468.489.12187

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:48?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:47?
LETTER:PASTON_489:M4:1491?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,468.489.12188

<Q_PAS_C_1490S?_T_JRADCLIFFE> <L_PASTON_490> <A_JOHN_RADCLIFFE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1452?> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,472>

{ED:832._FROM_JOHN_LORD_FITZWALTER_1488-94,_MARCH-APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right wourschippfull and hertely welbeloued cousyn Ser
John Paston , knyght , this be delyuered . </font>
PASTON,II,472.490.12189

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Right wourschippfull cousyn , in as hertely wyse as {in}_P I cane I
recommaund me to you . PASTON,II,472.490.12190

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
And forasmoche as ther was appoynted a day that ye and my cousyn Heydon
, Ser Robert Brandon , the Kynges Attorney , and other of the
worschippfull of this schyre should haue mett her before this tyme of
Estren , jt was so longe or the Kynges Attorney was commen in-to +te
contre` , and the tyme so shorte , that it hathe ben thowght there
myght be non couenable tyme affore this ; wherfor they be agreed that
they and ye should mete her on Thursday next commyng .
PASTON,II,472.490.12191

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Praying yow therfor that ye $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} her at that tyme ,
trustyng to Godes mercy that a right good wey $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
hadde betyx yow that all grugges and rancores $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
layd a-parte . PASTON,II,472.490.12192

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
And therfor , cousyn , I praye yow that ye wol not fayle for to be her
, PASTON,II,472.490.12193

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
and what I canne do for yow ye shall fynde it redy , with Godes grace ,
who haue yow in his most blessed and assured kepyng .
PASTON,II,472.490.12194

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
Wreten on Good Fryday last passed . PASTON,II,472.490.12195

AUTHOR:JOHN_RADCLIFFE:MALE:_:1452?:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_490:M4:1490S?:COPY:OTHER
+Gowir loffyng cosyn J. Sieur FytzWauter PASTON,II,472.490.12196

<Q_PAS_C_1496_T_ELMOWBRAY> <L_PASTON_491> <A_ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,474>

{ED:835._ELIZABETH_DUCHESS_OF_NORFOLK_TO_SIR_WILLIAM_KNYVETT,_SIR_
JOHN_PASTON,_AND_OTHERS_1495-6,_14_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right entyerly and welbelovid frendys Sere William
Knevette , Sere <P_II,475> John Paston , Sere Robert Clere , knyghtys ,
the Kyngys Attorney , Phelippe Calthorpe , Richard Suthwell , and
Robert Suthwell , squyers , and to yche of theym . </font>
PASTON,II,475.491.12197

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Elizabeth Duchesse of Norffolk PASTON,II,475.491.12198

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right entyerly welbelovyd frendys , I comaunde me to you .
PASTON,II,475.491.12199

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for as moche as I vnderstande that Sere Harry Grey , that is the
verry owner and possessioner of the maner of Ketryngham , is nowe in
gret age and , as it is seide , of right seekely disposicion , and that
after his deceasse the right and title therof shall of right belonge to
my right welbelovid seruaunt Thomas Martyn and his nevewe and heyre of
blood and his eyre therof by reason of entaylys , what the seid Sere
Harry entendith to do therin I knowe not , PASTON,II,475.491.12200

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
but it rennyth in reporte that he is in purpose to disherite the seid
Thomas Martyn therof , contrary to all right and good conscience . In
eschuenge wherof I desire and pray you as hertely as I can that it wull
leeke you to be so good maistyrs to the seid Thomas as by your wisdams
and discrecion the seid Sere Harry by you or some of you may be moued
of conscience and of kyndenesse to his blood to haue regard to the seid
right , and not to do eny thyng +tat shuld be disheryson to his seid
nevewe , and to haue the more tender consideracion to your mocion for
that the seid Thomas is to dyuerse of you of kynne and aliaunce and to
many o+ter gentilmen within the shere in leeke cas .
PASTON,II,475.491.12201

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And for the consideracion +tat I haue that the seid Sere Harry and
Thomas his nevewe were of my lordys nere blode , whoes soule Jesu
pardon and assoyle , jt were to gret a pete` to see hym by disheryson
to falle to penury and pouerte wher by your good exortacion in
consideracion of the premissis , and mo odir by your wisdamys to be
remembred in the lif of the seid Sere Harry , suche inconveniences may
be better remadyed ; wherin ye shall not only do an almas dede and a
gret pleasir to God , but also to me for that blodys sake a singuler
pleasir , and cause me heraftir the rather to considir thynge that
shall concerne your resonabill pleasir , with Goddys grace , who euer
kepe you . PASTON,II,475.491.12202

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52
LETTER:PASTON_491:M4:1496:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At Erle Soham this xiiij=ne= day of Septembyr . PASTON,II,475.491.12203

<Q_PAS_C_1496?_T_EMOWBRAY> <L_PASTON_492> <A_ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,476>

{ED:836._ELIZABETH_DUCHESS_OF_NORFOLK_PERHAPS_1496,_28_FEBRUARY}_C ODE

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

<font>

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52?
LETTER:PASTON_492:M4:1496?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
To my right welbeloued frende Sere John Paston , knyght . </font>
PASTON,II,476.492.12204

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52?
LETTER:PASTON_492:M4:1496?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Elizabeth Duches of Norffolk PASTON,II,476.492.12205

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52?
LETTER:PASTON_492:M4:1496?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I commaunde me to you , thankyng you as hartely as I can for your
labour and substancyall serching owte of Thomas Martynz matyr , preing
you of contenuance and of your best aduyse therin how he shall breke
the matyr so as by your helpe and wysdam a frendely comunycacion may be
hadde , so as the matyr may be had in examynacion by suche gentylmen as
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} named by th'assent of bothe parties suche as
tendyr and love the wele of bothe parties and also the pees and
tranquyllyte` of the cuntre` , and loue to eschewe variaunce and
parties in the contre` ; wherin ye shall not only do a grete pleasure
to me but a grete dede of charyte` for the profight and ease of bothe
parties , and also a pleasure to God , who haue you in keping .
PASTON,II,476.492.12206

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52?
LETTER:PASTON_492:M4:1496?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
At Erle Soham lodge this xxviij day of February .
PASTON,II,476.492.12207

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_MOWBRAY:FEMALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:52?
LETTER:PASTON_492:M4:1496?:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
N. E. N. PASTON,II,476.492.12208

<Q_PAS_C_1490S_T_MDEVERE> <L_PASTON_493> <A_MARGARET_DE_VERE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,476>

{ED:837._FROM_MARGARET_COUNTESS_OF_OXFORD_1494-8,_15_JANUARY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my right trusty and hertely wilbilouede sone Sir John Paston
, knyght . </font> PASTON,II,476.493.12209

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Right trusty and hertely welbilouied sone , I recommennde me to you
PASTON,II,476.493.12210

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
and sende you Godes blyssynge and myn . PASTON,II,476.493.12211

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
And where oon John Malpas , myn <P_II,477> olde seruaunt , brynger
herof , hath $purchacede a writt directede to you and othre justices of
peace in the shires of Norffolk and Suffolk , and also to the sheryff
of the same , forto put hym in possible possescion in such certayn
landes of his accordynge to the Kynges writt , I pray you therefor
hertely and of my blyssynge charche you that at this my poure request
and desire ye wole pute you in your faythfull devour , with o+tere
justices associete with you , to see the execuscion doon and
performyede accordynge to the saide writt . PASTON,II,477.493.12212

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
And Almyghty God euere more preserue you , my nown dere sone .
PASTON,II,477.493.12213

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Writene in my lordes castell of Hethyngham the xv day of January .
PASTON,II,477.493.12214

AUTHOR:MARGARET_DE_VERE:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_493:M4:1490S:COPY:OTHER
Margaret Oxynford PASTON,II,477.493.12215

<Q_PAS_C_1499_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_494> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,477>

{ED:838._THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_TO_PASTON_AND_SIR_RALPH_SHELTON_1499,_
20_AUGUST}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To my right trusty and right $welbeloued Ser John Paston ,
$knight , and Ser $Rauff $Shelton , knight , and <em> to either </em>
of them . </font> PASTON,II,477.494.12216

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Right trusty and welbeloued councellours , I comaunde me to you .
PASTON,II,477.494.12217

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And where the Kynges grace is lately acertennyed that th'Erl of Suffolk
is departid owt of this his realme , hys Grace hath commaundid me to
wryte vnto you that ye incontynent vppon the sight of this my writing
endeovour you to enquyre aswell of such persones as be departid ouer
with the seid Erle as of theim that accompanyed hym in his repayre to
the see and retournyd ageyn , or in any wyse were prevy to the same ;
and theruppon , in as goodly hast as {in}_P ye kan , to put them and
euery of them in suertie savely to be kept , and therof t'acerteyn me
to th'entent ye maye knowe his further pleasure in the same .
PASTON,II,477.494.12218

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And if ye $shall at any tyme herafter perceyue any suspect person nyghe
vnto the see costes which $shall seme vnto you to be of the same
affynyte` , than his Grace will that ye put them in lyke suertie .
PASTON,II,477.494.12219

<P_II,478>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And Almighti God haue you in his keping . PASTON,II,478.494.12220

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Written at Goddishill $in the Ile of Wight the xx=ti= daye of August .
PASTON,II,478.494.12221

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:56
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:55
LETTER:PASTON_494:M4:1499:COPY:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Oxynford PASTON,II,478.494.12222

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_T_T1HOWARD> <L_PASTON_495> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,480>

{ED:842._THOMAS_HOWARD,_EARL_OF_SURREY_NOT_BEFORE_1490_OR_AFTER_15
04,_24_APRIL}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my right wourshipfull cousine Ser John Paston , knyght .
</font> PASTON,II,480.495.12223

<P_II,481>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right wourshipfull cousine , in right harty wyse I commaunde me vnto
you . PASTON,II,481.495.12224

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wher I vnderstand by Thomas Hartforde , a bower of Norwiche , berer
herof , hath been putt to grete vexacion and trouble by oon Thomas
Hogan , scomaker of Norwiche , and +tat I perceyue ye haue hard the
matier depending in trauers bitwixt the saide parties , I $therfore
desire you +tat in the right of the forsaid Thomas Hartford ye $will
$be {TEXT:wolbe} vnto hym gode maistir , and the bettir for this myn
jnstaunce , as my singler trust is in you . PASTON,II,481.495.12225

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And wher I conceyue also +tat the same Thomas is noysed in Norffolke
for a Scotesman borne , ye shall vnderstande that I perceyue wele by
suche honest folkes as I haue hard speke within the citie of York that
the saide Thomas was bourne their , and his fathir +tere jnhabityng ,
and his godfathirs and mothers , +te which bee right honest persones ;
PASTON,II,481.495.12226

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for that this is true and not feyned , ye shall vnderstand the
maiour of the citie of York and his brethern hath made grete jnstaunce
vnto me to writ for the saide Thomas , for whom I must nedes do because
+taye arr my nye neighbours , as Our Lord knoweth , who haue you in his
blissid saufegard . PASTON,II,481.495.12227

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written in the castell of Shirefhoton the xxiiij=th= day of Aprill .
PASTON,II,481.495.12228

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_495:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your louyng cousin Thomas Surrey PASTON,II,481.495.12229

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_T_T1HOWARD> <L_PASTON_496> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,481>

{ED:843._FROM_THOMAS_EARL_OF_SURREY_1489-1503,_25_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To +te wourshipfull and my right entierly biloued cousine Ser
John Paston , knight . </font> PASTON,II,481.496.12230

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wourshipfull and right entierly biloued cousine , I commaund me vnto
you PASTON,II,481.496.12231

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in my right hartily wise +tank you of all kindnes , requiryng you
of contynuaunce . PASTON,II,481.496.12232

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as Edmond Stanhawe , late baillif of Horford in +te countie
of Norffolk , owghte me at +te tyme of his disceas xxxvij li. x s. ,
<P_II,482> cousine , I desire and praye you to shewe you of good wille
and toward disposicion in +tis matier so +tat +te rather by your mean I
of +t'executours to +te Testament of +te said Edmond may in +tis
bihalue haue contentacion , and +tat it woll like you to yeue credence
touching +te premisses vnto my seruaunt and conseillour Thomas Jenney .
PASTON,II,482.496.12233

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And if +tinges lye in me for your pleassur I pray you to be bold ouer
me as I am of you , to whom I biseche God to send good fortunes .
PASTON,II,482.496.12234

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written in +te castelle of Shirefhoton +te xxv daie of Septembre .
PASTON,II,482.496.12235

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_496:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your louyng cousin Thomas Surrey PASTON,II,482.496.12236

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_T_T1HOWARD> <L_PASTON_497> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,482>

{ED:844._FROM_THOMAS_EARL_OF_SURREY_1489-1504,_6_JULY}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

<font>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_497:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To my right wurshipfull cousin Sir John Paston . </font>
PASTON,II,482.497.12237

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_497:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cousin Pastone , in my most harty wise I recomaund me vnto you
PASTON,II,482.497.12238

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_497:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thank you for many kindnessis of tyme past , and also for that ye
haue bene so good maistre vnto my sarvaunt William May ;
PASTON,II,482.497.12239

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_497:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now at his comyng to me ye haue at your greate coste sent him to me
dressid in suche wise as is veray necessary for me to haue {in}_P men
apparailid . For the whiche your kindnesse I think my-selfe right moche
beholdin to do you a $pleasire and it moght lye in my power , whiche I
wuld right gladly do , as knowith Our Lord , whom I beseche to send you
moche hartis pleasire . PASTON,II,482.497.12240

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_497:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wretin at Sherif Hoton the vj=th= day of July withe the hand of Your
louyng cousin Thomas $Surrey PASTON,II,482.497.12241

<Q_PAS_A_1490S?_FS_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_498> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_--->
<R_JOHN_PASTON_III> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,482>

{ED:845._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_NOT_AFTER_1503,_NOVEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To the right reuerent and honurable my master Ser John Paston ,
knyght . </font> PASTON,II,482.498.12242

<P_II,483>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Plesitht it your mastership to remembre I shewyd onto you in Lente +tat
I had bought Baktons place . PASTON,II,483.498.12243

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ser , it is so that John Bakton graunted to John Trovy hes sone inlawe
hes mese with all the londes and tenementes , &c. , takyng of the seide
John Trovy viij marke of annuyte` yerly , terme of hes lyf ; wherupon
endentures were made and astate delyuerd . Vpon the weche I bargeyned
with Trovy , payng to hym for hes parte c marke and x , wherof he hadde
in hande iiij li. vj s. viij d. , PASTON,II,483.498.12244

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and xv li. xiij s. iiij d. shulde be payd at such tyme as I had a
lawfull astate , weche was apoynted before Michelmes last past ; weche
is not yet don , wherfore he hath forfeted an obligacion of xl li. +tat
he was bounde in to me for the same astate . PASTON,II,483.498.12245

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ther was no defaute in me , PASTON,II,483.498.12246

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for my money was there redy . PASTON,II,483.498.12247

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And , ser , in the same weke after your mastership departed out of this
contre` Bakton and the seide Trovy come to Bakton
PASTON,II,483.498.12248

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and sent for me , PASTON,II,483.498.12249

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there were we appoynted for the same bargeyn and accorded , wenyng
to me and to all tho +tat were there it had ben fully <em> concluded
bothe for </em> my suerte`s and for all other thynges .
PASTON,II,483.498.12250

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And sodenly Bakton departed hem be the avice of the <em> Priour of
</em> Bromholme and John Bowle ond other , weche meved Bakton +tat I
shulde not haue my bargein ; PASTON,II,483.498.12251

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so they entende to putte me from my bergein .
PASTON,II,483.498.12252

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Master Fitzlawes , $Knight , of Esex , hath sent me a letter weche
I sende you closed herin , PASTON,II,483.498.12253

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and at hes enstaunce I haue graunted Trovy an ende for vj li. and my
iiij li. vj s. viij d. and my costes +tat I haue don on the place ,
weche with these mony and costes drawith xij li .
PASTON,II,483.498.12254

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If I may haue all thes money payd onto me within xiiij dayes after
Cristemes I wol take non avauntage of the obligacion weche Trovy is
bounde to me . PASTON,II,483.498.12255

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I suppose Master Lawes woll speke to you of this mater .
PASTON,II,483.498.12256

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I beseche you that ye wol be goode master to me herin ,
PASTON,II,483.498.12257

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I am lothe to be putte from my bergein . PASTON,II,483.498.12258

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I am in suerte` there is no man wol geve so moche for it as I wolde ,
PASTON,II,483.498.12259

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and they nede not to fere them of ther payment ,
PASTON,II,483.498.12260

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I ofer them iiij suerte`s , PASTON,II,483.498.12261

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
+te worste of them is worthe all the londe ; PASTON,II,483.498.12262

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yet Bakton mystrustes me and nede not . PASTON,II,483.498.12263

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If I had it I wolde truste to make it a goode thyng ,
PASTON,II,483.498.12264

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for ther is moche thyng ther-by +tat myght be had in-to it , weche
causeth me to be the more desirous to it . PASTON,II,483.498.12265

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I shewe your mastership the previte` of my mynde , trustyng ye $will
$be {TEXT:wolbe} <P_II,484> goode mastre to me .
PASTON,II,484.498.12266

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And I shal prey to God for you and for all youres .
PASTON,II,484.498.12267

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT/BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_498:M4:1490S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wreten at Felmyngham the Saterday next before Sein Marteyn . Be your
seruaunt R. Calle PASTON,II,484.498.12268

<Q_PAS_C_1504_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_499> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,486>

{ED:848._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1503-4,_26_JUNE}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

<font>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
To the right worshipfull and my right intierly welbelouyd Ser John
Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,486.499.12269

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
Right worshipfull and right intierly belouyd , I commaund me hartely to
you . PASTON,II,486.499.12270

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
And where as your broder William , my seruaunte , ys so troubelid with
sekenes and crasid in his myndes that I may not kepe hym aboute me ,
wherfor I am right sory , and at this tyme sende hym to you ; prayng
especially that he may be kepte surely and tendirly with you to suche
tyme as God fortune hym to be bettyr assurid of hym-selfe and his
myndes more sadly disposid , whiche I pray God may be in shorte tyme ,
PASTON,II,486.499.12271

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
and preserue you longe in gode prosperite` . PASTON,II,486.499.12272

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
Writen at my place in London the xxvj day of Juyn .
PASTON,II,486.499.12273

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:61
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:60
LETTER:PASTON_499:E1:1504:COPY:OTHER
Oxynford PASTON,II,486.499.12274

<Q_PAS_C_1500S_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_500> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,486>

{ED:849._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1503,_15_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my righte trusty and righte welbelovyd counceillours Ser
Rauff Shelton and Ser John Paston , knyghtis . </font>
PASTON,II,486.500.12275

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Righte trusty and righte welbelouyd counceillours , I commaunde me to
you . PASTON,II,486.500.12276

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
And forasmoche as one Thomas Charlys of Norwiche late hathe presentid
vnto me a bille of complaynte agaynste Symonde White , gentylman ,
dwellyng in Shotesham , shewing by the same suche wrongis as the saide
Symonde hathe done and daily dothe to the saide Thomas , as by the
saide bille , whiche I sende you with this , more playnely apperith ; I
therfor desire and pray you that ye woll do calle the saide parties
byfore you and <P_II,487> upon due examinacion had upon the mater
conteyned in the saide bille ye take suche direccion as may acorde with
righte and gode consciens , so as the saide Thomas Charlis heraftur
haue no cause to resorte to me complaynyng . PASTON,II,487.500.12277

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
And Almightie God kepe you . PASTON,II,487.500.12278

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Writen at my castelle of Hedingham the xv daye of Septembre .
PASTON,II,487.500.12279

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_500:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Oxynford PASTON,II,487.500.12280

<Q_PAS_C_1500S_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_501> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_JOHN_PASTON_III>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1444>

<P_II,487>

{ED:850._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_NOT_AFTER_1503,_22_SEPTEMBER}

{COM:TO_JOHN_PASTON_III}

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
<font> To the right worshipfull and my right intierly welbelouyd
councellour Ser John Paston , knyght . </font> PASTON,II,487.501.12281

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Right worshipfull and right intierly welbelouyd councellour , I comaund
me to you PASTON,II,487.501.12282

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
and hartely thanke you for your hawkes and also for your storkes whiche
I vndirstond that ye haue sent vnto me to my right great pleasure ,
acertenyng you that I wolde be right glad to se you in these parties .
PASTON,II,487.501.12283

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Neuyrtheles I trust in short tyme , doing my pilgrimage to Walsingham ,
to se you in tho parties , and than to thanke you for your right gode
and louyng remembraunce whiche I well vndirstond by these and diuerse
otherys nat owt of your mynde ne forgotyn , whiche shall nat be in my
behalue forgotyn , by the grace of God , who haue you in keping .
PASTON,II,487.501.12284

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Wretin at my castell of Hedingham the xxij day of Septembre .
PASTON,II,487.501.12285

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PASTON_III:MALE:_:1444:_
LETTER:PASTON_501:E1:1500S:COPY:OTHER
Oxynford PASTON,II,487.501.12286

<Q_PAS_C_1480S_T_JDEVEREJR> <L_PASTON_502> <A_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_EDMOND_PASTON_II>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,491>

{ED:854._FROM_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1486-9,_7_APRIL}

{COM:TO_EDMOND_PASTON_II}

<font>

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_502:M4:1480S:COPY:OTHER
To my right welbiloued Edmond Paston , esquier . </font>
PASTON,II,491.502.12287

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_502:M4:1480S:COPY:OTHER
Right welbiloued , I grete you wele . PASTON,II,491.502.12288

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_502:M4:1480S:COPY:OTHER
And where as certein landes which late were the Lord Scales by title of
enheritaunce be discendid to me and to my welbiloued cousin William
Tyndale , it is accordid bitwixt me and my said cousin that the
profites of the said landes shall neither be taken by my resceiuour nor
his , but that an indifferent persone shall take and resceiue the same
profittes to the vse of vs bothe till suche tyme as a resonable
particion may laufully be made in that behalf ; wherfore aswele I as my
said cousin , hauyng speciall confidence and trust in you , desire and
hertly pray you to take the laboure and peyn atte oure costes and
charges to take and resceiue the profites of all the said landes to
oure vse and behofe , deliueryng alwey the oon moyte` of your resceites
to my resceiuoure and the other moitee to my said cousin Tyndale whan
so euer the said profites by you so shall be taken and resceiued ;
yeuyng you full auctorite` and powere by this my writyng to execute the
same . PASTON,II,491.502.12289

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_502:M4:1480S:COPY:OTHER
Written atte Newe Market the vij=th= day of Aprill .
PASTON,II,491.502.12290

AUTHOR:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:EDMOND_PASTON_II:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_502:M4:1480S:COPY:OTHER
Oxynford PASTON,II,491.502.12291

<Q_PAS_A_1469_FN_RCALLE> <L_PASTON_503> <A_RICHARD_CALLE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_---> <R_MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,498>

{ED:861._FROM_RICHARD_CALLE_1469}

{COM:TO_MARGERY_PASTON}

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Myn owne lady and mastres , and be-for God very trewe wyff , I wyth
herte full sorowefull recomaunde me vnto you as he that can not be mery
nor nought $shall $be {TEXT:schalbe} tyll it be otherwice wyth vs
thenne it is yet ; PASTON,II,498.503.12292

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thys lyff +tat we lede nough is nowther-2 plesur to Godde nor to
the worlde , concederyng the gret bonde of matrymonye +tat is made
be-twix vs , and also the greete loue +tat hath be , and as I truste
yet is , be-twix vs , and as on my parte neuer gretter . Wherfor I
beseche Almyghty Godde comfort vs as sone as it plesyth hym ,
PASTON,II,498.503.12293

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for we +tat ought of very ryght to be moost to-gether ar moost asondre
; PASTON,II,498.503.12294

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
me semyth it is a m=ll= yere agoo son +tat I speke wyth you .
PASTON,II,498.503.12295

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I had leuer thenne all the goode in the worlde I myght be wyth you .
PASTON,II,498.503.12296

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Alas , alas , goode lady , full litell remembre they what they do +tat
kepe vs thus a-sonder ; PASTON,II,498.503.12297

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
iiij tymes in the yere ar they a-cursid that lette matrymonye .
PASTON,II,498.503.12298

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It causith many men to deme in hem they haue large consyence in other
maters aswele as herin . PASTON,II,498.503.12299

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But what , lady , suffre as ye haue do PASTON,II,498.503.12300

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and make you asmery as ye can , PASTON,II,498.503.12301

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for j-wys , lady , at the longe wey Godde woll of hys ryghtwysnes helpe
hys seruauntys that meane truly and wolde leue accordyng to hes lawys ,
&c . PASTON,II,498.503.12302

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I vndrestonde , lady , ye haue hadde asmoche sorwe for me as any
gentelwoman hath $hadde in the worlde ; PASTON,II,498.503.12303

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
aswolde Godd all that sorwe +tat ye haue hadde had rested vpon <em> me
so </em> +tat ye hadde be discharged of it , PASTON,II,498.503.12304

<P_II,499>

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for j-wis , lady , it is to me a deethe to her +tat ye be entreted
other-wice thenne ye ought to be . PASTON,II,499.503.12305

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This is a peyneful lyfe +tat we lede ; PASTON,II,499.503.12306

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I con not leve thus wythoute it be a gret displesure to Godde .
PASTON,II,499.503.12307

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also like you to wete +tat I had sent you a letter be my ladde from
London , PASTON,II,499.503.12308

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he tolde me he myght not speeke wyth you , PASTON,II,499.503.12309

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther was made so gret awayte vpon hym and vpon you boothe .
PASTON,II,499.503.12310

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He tolde me John Threscher come to hym in your name
PASTON,II,499.503.12311

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and seide +tat ye sent hym to my ladde for a letter or a token weche I
schulde haue sent you ; PASTON,II,499.503.12312

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he truste hym not , PASTON,II,499.503.12313

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he wold not delyuer hym noon . PASTON,II,499.503.12314

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
After that he brought hym a rynge , seyng +tat ye sent it hym ,
comaundyng hym +tat he schulde delyuer the letter or token to hym ,
weche I conceyue sethen be my ladde it was not be your sendyng ,
PASTON,II,499.503.12315

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it was be my mastres and Ser Jamys a-vys . PASTON,II,499.503.12316

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Alas , what meane they ? PASTON,II,499.503.12317

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I suppose they deeme we be not ensuryd to-gether ;
PASTON,II,499.503.12318

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they so doo I mervell , PASTON,II,499.503.12319

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for thenne they ar not wele aviced , remembryng the pleynes +tat I
breke to my mastres at the be-gynnyng , PASTON,II,499.503.12320

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I suppose be you bothe , PASTON,II,499.503.12321

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and ye dede as ye ought to do of very ryght . PASTON,II,499.503.12322

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And if ye haue do the $contrare` , as I haue be enformed ye haue do ,
ye dede nouther concyensly nor to the plesure of Godde , wythoute ye
dede it for feere and for the tyme to pleace suche as were at that tyme
a-boute you ; PASTON,II,499.503.12323

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if ye so dede it for this cauce it was a resonable cauce ,
concederyng the grete and importable callyng vpon +tat ye hadde ,
PASTON,II,499.503.12324

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and many an on-trewe tale was made to you of me , weche God knowyth I
was neuer gylty of . PASTON,II,499.503.12325

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My ladde tolde me +tat my mastres your modre axyd hym if he hadde
brought any letter to you , PASTON,II,499.503.12326

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and many other thyngys sche bare hym an hande , PASTON,II,499.503.12327

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and a-monge all other at the last sche seide to hym that I wolde not
make her prevy to the be-gynnyng PASTON,II,499.503.12328

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but sche supposyd I wolde at the endyng . PASTON,II,499.503.12329

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And as to that , God knowyth sche knewe it furst of me and non other .
PASTON,II,499.503.12330

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wott not what her mastreschip meneth , PASTON,II,499.503.12331

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for be my trowthe ther is no gentylwoman on lyue that my herte tendreth
more then it dothe her , nor is lother to displese , savyng only your
person , weche of very ryght I ought to tender and loue beste ,
PASTON,II,499.503.12332

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I am bounde therto be the lawe of Godde , PASTON,II,499.503.12333

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and so wol do whyle +tat I leve , what som euer falle of it .
PASTON,II,499.503.12334

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I supose and ye telle hem sadly the trouthe they wole not dampne ther
soules for vs . PASTON,II,499.503.12335

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Though I telle hem the trouthe they woll not beleue me as weele as they
woll do you . PASTON,II,499.503.12336

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And ther-for , goode lady , at the reuerence of Godde be pleyne to hem
PASTON,II,499.503.12337

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and telle the trouthe , PASTON,II,499.503.12338

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if they <P_II,500> woll in no wice agree therto , be-twix God , the
Deelfe , and them be it ; PASTON,II,500.503.12339

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that perell +tat we schulde be in I beseche Godde it may lye vpon
them and not vpon vs . PASTON,II,500.503.12340

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am hevy and sory to remembre ther diposicion .
PASTON,II,500.503.12341

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God sende them grace to gyde all thyngys weele , as wele I wolde they
dede . PASTON,II,500.503.12342

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Godde be ther gide PASTON,II,500.503.12343

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sende them peas and reste , &c . PASTON,II,500.503.12344

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I mervell moche +tat they schulde take this mater so heedely as I
vndrestonde they doo , remembryng it is in suche case as it can not be
remedyed , and my desert , vpon euery be-halfe it is for to be thought
ther schulde be non obstacle a-yenst it . PASTON,II,500.503.12345

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also , the worchipful +tat is in them is not in your mariage ,
PASTON,II,500.503.12346

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is in ther owne mariage , weche I beseche Godde sende hem suche as
may be to ther worschip and plesur to Godde and to ther hertys eace ,
PASTON,II,500.503.12347

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ell were it gret pety . PASTON,II,500.503.12348

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mastres , I am aferde to write to you , PASTON,II,500.503.12349

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I vndrestond ye haue schewyd my letters +tat I haue sent you be-for
this tyme ; PASTON,II,500.503.12350

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I prey you lete no creatur se this letter . PASTON,II,500.503.12351

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As sone as ye haue redde it lete it be brent , PASTON,II,500.503.12352

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I wolde no man schulde se it in no wice . PASTON,II,500.503.12353

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Ye had no wrytyng from me this ij yere , PASTON,II,500.503.12354

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor I wolle not sende you no mor ; PASTON,II,500.503.12355

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
therfor I remytte all this matre to your $wysdom .
PASTON,II,500.503.12356

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Almyghty Jesu precerue , kepe , and $geue you your hertys desire ,
weche I wotte weele schulde be to Goodys plesur , &c .
PASTON,II,500.503.12357

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This letter was wreten wyth as greete peyne as {in}_P euer wrote I
thynge in my lyfe , PASTON,II,500.503.12358

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for in goode feyth I haue be ryght seke PASTON,II,500.503.12359

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yet am not veryly weele at eace , PASTON,II,500.503.12360

AUTHOR:RICHARD_CALLE:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:MARGERY_CALLE[N.PASTON]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_503:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
God amend it , &c . PASTON,II,500.503.12361

<Q_PAS_A_1510S_T_T1HOWARD> <L_PASTON_504> <A_THOMAS_HOWARD_I>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1443> <R_WILLIAM_PASTON_IV>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,502>

{ED:864._FROM_THOMAS_EARL_OF_SURREY_NOT_AFTER_1513,_4_DECEMBER}

{COM:TO_WILLIAM_PASTON_IV}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To my cousyne William Pastone , esquier . </font>
PASTON,II,502.504.12362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cousyn Paston , I recommaunde $me vnto you . PASTON,II,502.504.12363

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And where as this somer ther was a hulke of Humborowe peryshed before
Wynterton , and be-cause that the men of the same was saved I myght not
clayme the same as a wrake but commaunded myn officers to restore the
owners to their shippe and goodes belongyng to the same , and sens that
tyme , as I ame enformed , Thomas Clere and Richard Palmer of Yermouthe
bought the hull and mastes with all other tacle and tymbre belongyng to
the said shippe ; after wiche tyme with a ragyng tyde parte of the said
shippe was cast on lande on your grownde at Castre , wiche ye withold
claymyng the same to be youres as a wrake on your grownde . <P_II,503>
Cousyn Paston , I mervaill ye so do , PASTON,II,503.504.12364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for $as $for {TEXT:asfor} wrake ye cane prove it none ,
PASTON,II,503.504.12365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if ye colde it ought to be myne and not yours ,
PASTON,II,503.504.12366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I ame assuered ye haue no graunt of the Kyng nor of none of his
antecessours kynges of Englande to haue wrake on your owne grownd ,
wherfore in claymyng and witholdyng the saide goodes ye do not only
wrong vnto the owners of the same but vnto me , vnto whome all wrakes
of right appertayneth onles the owners of the grownde wher it commyth
on lande haue wrake graunted vnto tham by the Kynges lettres patentes .
Wherfore , cousyn , I require you to restore the saide Thomas and
Richard vnto thair goodes accordyng to right , so that they haue no
further cause to complayne vnto me for the same .
PASTON,II,503.504.12367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus Our Lorde kepe you . PASTON,II,503.504.12368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Written at Kenyngale the iiij=th= daie of December .
PASTON,II,503.504.12369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_HOWARD_I:MALE:_:1443:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_PASTON_IV:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_504:E1:1510S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
T. Surrey PASTON,II,503.504.12370

<Q_PAS_A_1448_T_RHUNGERFORD> <L_PASTON_505> <A_ROBERT_HUNGERFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1431> <R_WILLIAM_WAINFLEET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1400?>

<P_II,519>

{ED:873._ROBERT_HUNGERFORD_LORD_MOLEYNS_TO_WILLIAM_WAINFLEET,_BISH
OP_OF_WINCHESTER_1448,_13_JUNE}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the worschpful fadyr in God and my ryth $gode lord the
$Bysshop of Wynchestyr . </font> PASTON,II,519.505.12371

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worshypful fadyr yn God and my rythe gode lord , as hertely as y canne
y recomaund me to your gode lordschyp , to the wyche plese hyt to wyt
<P_II,520> that y have resayvyd your letter ; by the wyche y
oundyrstond the dayely sute to your lordschyp as of Pastun as for the
mater betwyx hym and me , wer-yn also y fele that he ys wyllyd that
comynycasyon and trete` schold be had betwyxt hys counsayle and myne
now at Mydsomer ; to the wyche , my lord , y am at the reverens of your
lordschyp wel agreyd , and have send to my counsayle at Loundon aftyr
the seyng of thys your last letter as for the trete` by-twyxt hym and
me , and that thay schold yeve ful attendauns to the end of the mater
$by-twene the sayde Pastun and me as thow y were present wyth hem .
PASTON,II,520.505.12372

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And , my lord , hyt were to grete a thyng , and hyt laye yn my pouer ,
PASTON,II,520.505.12373

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but y wold do at the reverens of your lordschyp yn las than hyt schold
hurt me to gretly , wyche y wote wel your lordschyp wol nevyr desyr .
PASTON,II,520.505.12374

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And God for hys mercy have you , rythe worschypful fadyr yn God and my
rythe gode lord , yn hys blessyd kepyng . PASTON,II,520.505.12375

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wrytyn wyth my noune Chaunsery hond yn hast the xiij daye of June at
Teffaunt . PASTON,II,520.505.12376

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:17
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:48?
LETTER:PASTON_505:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Vere` hartely your , Molyns PASTON,II,520.505.12377

<Q_PAS_C_1449_T_RHUNGERFORD> <L_PASTON_506> <A_ROBERT_HUNGERFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1431> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_15>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,521>

{ED:875._ROBERT_HUNGERFORD_LORD_MOLEYNS_TO_THE_TENANTS_OF_GRESHAM_
1449,_24_MARCH}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
<font> To my trusty and wel-belouyd the vycary and tenauntys of my
lord-schepe of Gresham . </font> PASTON,II,521.506.12378

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
Trusty and welbeloued frendys , I grete yowe well ,
PASTON,II,521.506.12379

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
and putte yowe all oute of doute all +tat ye haue doon for me and the
money that ye pay to my welbeloued seruaunt John Partrich I will be
your warant as for your discharge and saue yowe harmeles ayenst all
thoo +tat wold greve yowe , to my power . PASTON,II,521.506.12380

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
And as hertly as I can I thanke yowe of the gud wyl ye haue had and
haue toward me ; PASTON,II,521.506.12381

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
and as to the tytyll of rigth +tat I haue to the lordship of Gressam
schal with-in short tyme be knoweyn , and be the lawe so determynyd
that ye schal all be glad +tat hath ought me youre gud wyll +ter-in .
PASTON,II,521.506.12382

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
And All-myghty God kepe yowe ; PASTON,II,521.506.12383

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
and be his grace I schall be with yowe son aftyr the Parlement es endyd
. PASTON,II,521.506.12384

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
Wrytten atte London on Oure Lady Evyn last past .
PASTON,II,521.506.12385

AUTHOR:ROBERT_HUNGERFORD:MALE:_:1431:18
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_15:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_506:M4:1449:COPY:OTHER
R. H. , Lord Molyns PASTON,II,521.506.12386

<Q_PAS_C_1450_TC_WYELVERTON> <L_PASTON_507> <A_WILLIAM_YELVERTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_1400?> <R_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_1378?>

<P_II,523>

{ED:877._WILLIAM_YELVERTON_TO_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF:COPY_1450,_NOVEMBER }

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
My moste worshypfull and best betrusted maister , I recommaund me to
yow , thankyng yow for manye grete gentlenesse and kyndnesse that ye
hafe shewed vnto me and for the grete ease that I had of your man and
your horsys also . PASTON,II,523.507.12387

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
As for tydyngys owte of thys contree , here ys a merveyllous disposed
contree and manye evylle wylled peple to Ser Thomas Tuddenham and
Heydon , PASTON,II,523.507.12388

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
and but yff they been putt in comfort there by the meene of a gode
shyreve and vndreshyreve they may hafe remedye now by the ordre of lawe
, PASTON,II,523.507.12389

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
and ellys grete $jnconueniences arn lyke for to folowe there-off .
PASTON,II,523.507.12390

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
Therfor , ser , for the weele of all our gode contree meovyth the Kyng
, my lord Chaunceller and all othyr lordes as ye thynk best for thys
mater on thys behalf . PASTON,II,523.507.12391

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
Also , ser , yff they noyse me by thee meene of my Lord Scalys or by
onye othyr meene , or by onye bylle sewed by Brygg or by onye othyr man
by her crafft , that it please yow to sey for me yn savacion of my pore
worshyp , whych I wote well they may not hurt but they doo me wrong ,
to the Kyng , my lord $Chaunceller , my lord of Wynchestre , my Lord
Cromewell , and yn othyr places as ye semyth , that no credence be
yoven to myne hurt yn myne absence . PASTON,II,523.507.12392

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
Also , ser , that William Geney and Brayn , the clerk of the sessyons ,
ben hastyed hedreward aswell as they may . PASTON,II,523.507.12393

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
And , ser , my cousyn Paston and my brothyr Cleere can tell yow moch
more thyng that I shuld wryte off to yow and I had leysere ,
PASTON,II,523.507.12394

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
but I shall wythynne short tyme sende yow more tydyngys owte of thys
contree , by the grace off God , whych hafe yow yn hys holye kepyng .
PASTON,II,523.507.12395

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:FRIEND:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:FRIEND:1378?:72?
LETTER:PASTON_507:M4:1450:COPY:FRIEND
By your old seruaunt William Yeluerton , Justice
PASTON,II,523.507.12396

<Q_PAS_C_1450_T_WYELVERTON> <L_PASTON_508> <A_WILLIAM_YELVERTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1400?> <R_JOHN_BOKKYNG>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,524>

{ED:878._WILLIAM_YELVERTON_TO_JOHN_BOKKYNG:COPY_1450,_NOVEMBER}_CO DE

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Worshipfull and right welbeloued cosyn , I comaunde me to you , prayng
you to recomaunde me to my Maistir Fastolf and thank hym in my name
hertily for his man and his hors ; and also for to meve hym for that we
may haue a good shereve and a good vndershereve that neythir for good
fauore no fere wol returne for the Kyng ne betwix partie and partie non
othir men but such as are good and trewe and in no wyse will be
forsworne , PASTON,II,524.508.12397

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
for the pepil here is loth to compleyne til thei here tidynges of a
good shereve . PASTON,II,524.508.12398

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And that William Jenney and Brayne , the clerk of the cessions , and
Thomas Denys ben hastid hydirward as fast as thei may ,
PASTON,II,524.508.12399

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and than men supposen he nedith not to dowghtyn his materes .
PASTON,II,524.508.12400

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And also that my cosyn Paston be so hastily holpen in his maters that
he may sone come hedir ageyn . PASTON,II,524.508.12401

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
And also that my maistir be my sheld and my defense ageyns all fals
noyses and sclaundres meued ayens me by here menes in myn absens .
PASTON,II,524.508.12402

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
At Walsyngham and in othir places in the Duche` of Lancastre men shal
be redy to seche Heydon at hom in his own hous if he come home ;
PASTON,II,524.508.12403

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
and in lyke wyse standith Ser Thomas Tudenham his neighburs to hym ward
, as the more part of the pepil seth in this cuntre` .
PASTON,II,524.508.12404

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
His men haue told here the falsest tales of Ser William Oldhall and of
me that euere I herd speke of . PASTON,II,524.508.12405

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
It were ful necessarye and profitable to the Kyng and to his pepil for
to haue othir officers in his Duche` . PASTON,II,524.508.12406

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
Asay how ye can sett hem awerk in the parlement ,
PASTON,II,524.508.12407

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
for if this maters be sped as it is aforn desired thei ar lyke to be
sett awerk here well jnough , by the grace of God , which haue you in
holy kepyng . PASTON,II,524.508.12408

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
By youre cosyn William Yeluerton , Justice PASTON,II,524.508.12409

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_YELVERTON:MALE:_:1400?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BOKKYNG:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_508:M4:1450:COPY:OTHER
To my welbeloued cosyn John Bockyng PASTON,II,524.508.12410

<Q_PAS_C_1450S?_T_TSCALES> <L_PASTON_509> <A_THOMAS_SCALES>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1399?> <R_THOMAS_GNATYSHALE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,524>

{ED:879._THOMAS_LORD_SCALES_TO_THOMAS_GNATYSHALE_PERHAPS_1448-51,_
14_AUGUST}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
<font> To Thomas Gnateshale . </font> PASTON,II,524.509.12411

<P_II,525>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Thomas Gnateshale , I wul +ge wite it was oute of my remembrance that
Paston hade put in my determinacion the discort betwene you and hym .
PASTON,II,525.509.12412

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
I was the more fauourable to your entent , PASTON,II,525.509.12413

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
but in so mych as I had forgete +tat beforesaid I praye you that +ge
suffre the cornes in mene hand til +tat I haue determined the mater
betwene you too be the aduis of lerned men whech han knowelich in such
causses ; the which thing I wul do in as short tyme as {in}_P may ,
wherof +ge shal haue knowelich . PASTON,II,525.509.12414

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
Writen at Myddelton the xiiij day of August . PASTON,II,525.509.12415

AUTHOR:THOMAS_SCALES:MALE:_:1399?:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_GNATYSHALE:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_509:M4:1450S?:COPY:OTHER
The Lord Scales PASTON,II,525.509.12416

<Q_PAS_C_1452_T_JCLOPTON> <L_PASTON_510> <A_JOHN_CLOPTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HENRY_TUDOR_VI>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1421>

<P_II,530>

{ED:882._FROM_JOHN_CLOPTON_TO_THE_KING_AND_COUNCIL:COPY_1452,_MAY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
To the Kyng and the lordes of his Councell PASTON,II,530.510.12417

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
I John Clopton , shereffe of Norffolk , certifie that where oon John
Falyate and othre were take with-in the hundred of Blofeld in the seid
shire and led to the castell of Framlyngham in the counte` of Suffolk ,
I the forseid shereffe be the comaundment of my lord of Norffolk the
last day of Aprill receyved at the seid castell a bille of diuers
knowlech and confessyons which were enformyd me shuld haue be mad in
the presens of my seid lordes councell be Roger Chirch and othre ,
which the seid John Falyate , as it was enformed me , shuld haue
confessid to haue be trewe . After which bille receyved and be me red
and vnderstand , callyng be-for me the seid John Falyate and alle othre
that where examyned except the seid Rogere <P_II,531> Chirch in the
presens of diuers of my lordes councell there , I red to the seid John
Falyate the tale comprised in the seid bille seid be the seid Rogere
Chirch , demawndyng hym of the trought here-of ; wherto he answerd and
seid that he wust wele there was no wey with hym but deth and
there-fore as he wuld answere a-fore God he wuld sey the trought , and
seid that the substaunce of the tale told be the seid Rogere Chirch was
vntrewe and feyned and jmagyned be the same Chirch , and that he neuer
had knowleched that tale to be trewe . PASTON,II,531.510.12418

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
Neuerthelesse he seid that he was with a felesshep gadered vnder
Possewykwode be the prokeryng of the seid Chirch , which feleshep whan
thei were all to-gedere passid not the nombre of xv persones ; and that
the seid Chirch was the furst that euer mevid hym for to come theder ,
seyng that he shuld haue feleshep j-nowe and do goode , for he was
balyffe of the hundred and be colour of his office he shuld send in men
j-now , and that he knew a gode name for here capteyn , that shuld be
John A-mend Alle . PASTON,II,531.510.12419

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
More-ouer I the seid shereffe asked the seid Falyate if thei whan thei
were to-geder spoke of Paston and othre gentilmen named in the seid
bille to haue assisted hem , PASTON,II,531.510.12420

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
and he seid pleynly nay , but that thei and othre thrifty men were
noysid be the seid Chirch and be his councellores sith the tyme of the
gaderyng of the seid feleshep , and neuer was spokyn of there .
PASTON,II,531.510.12421

AUTHOR:JOHN_CLOPTON:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HENRY_TUDOR_VI:MALE:_:1421:31
LETTER:PASTON_510:M4:1452:COPY:OTHER
In like wyse seid othre that were examyned in the seid bille .
PASTON,II,531.510.12422

<Q_PAS_A_1458_FS_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_511> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378?>

<P_II,531>
{ED:883._WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1458,_1_FEBRUARY}_C ODE

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght worshypfull mayster Ser John Fastolf . </font>
PASTON,II,531.511.12423

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ryght worshypfull ser and my ryght gode maister , I recommaund me to
yow yn my full humble wyse . PASTON,II,531.511.12424

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Please yow to wete that I rode wyth Maister Paston to Cotton , and
there he had the tenauntes before hym and toke astate and seison yn the
feffe` namys acordyng to the dede to your behofe .
PASTON,II,531.511.12425

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And there nedyth grete reparacion , PASTON,II,531.511.12426

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
or the jnner court and the barnys wylle falle doune .
PASTON,II,531.511.12427

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Hyt ys grete pitie of certeyn your tenauntes that lak her beestes and
be destroyed thys snow seson yn Wentworth parkes .
PASTON,II,531.511.12428

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Paston <P_II,532> wille do that he can to remedye it .
PASTON,II,532.511.12429

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And also by the astate of Cotton passed the astate of your maner in
Nacton because it ys yn one dede , PASTON,II,532.511.12430

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but yff the parson or Spyrlyng may be at Nacton when they shall hold a
court there or tak the accomptes the tenauntes most attorne to Ser
Thomas yn your name and so be-com tenaunt . PASTON,II,532.511.12431

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , I hafe delyuered to Maister +Geluerton , Fylonglee , and othyrs
your lettres wyth such credence as ye and Paston hafe avysed me ,
PASTON,II,532.511.12432

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and shall entend here yn such besynesse as Paston avysyth me for your
proffyt . PASTON,II,532.511.12433

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And Matheu taryeth here tille som othyr lettres or message be redye ,
because Dygon the parson chylde commyth home to yow owt of my contree
and bryngyth such lettres as be redy now . PASTON,II,532.511.12434

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , Columber , le purcyuaunt of Ser William Cosynot , departyth thys
next weke , PASTON,II,532.511.12435

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he hath wyth hym all the informacion that ys necessary for thys
tyme to grounde the mater for Ser Gy your prisonnere ;
PASTON,II,532.511.12436

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he seyth ryght well . PASTON,II,532.511.12437

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as for Hue Hunt , he ys not yhyt com yn-to Ingland .
PASTON,II,532.511.12438

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I shall inquire of Molyneux after hys commyng and speke wyth hym for to
recuuere th'endenture of Lord Cromewell executours .
PASTON,II,532.511.12439

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as to nouueltees here both Cristofre Barker wrytith to yow more
along . PASTON,II,532.511.12440

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Kyng came the last weke to Westminster , PASTON,II,532.511.12441

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the Duke of York came to London wyth hys oune housold onlye to the
nombre of cxl horses , as it ys seyd , the Erle of Salysburye wyth
iiij=c= horses yn hys companye , iiij=xx= knyghtes and sqwyeres .
PASTON,II,532.511.12442

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Duke of Somerset came to London last day of Janyuere wyth ij=c=
horses , PASTON,II,532.511.12443

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and loggyth wythoute Temple Barre ; PASTON,II,532.511.12444

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the Duc of Excestre shall be here thys weke wyth a grete felyshyp
and strong , as it ys seyd . PASTON,II,532.511.12445

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Erle of Warewyk ys not yhyt com because the wynde ys not for hym ,
PASTON,II,532.511.12446

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the Duke of Excestre takyth a grete displeser that my Lord Warewyk
occupyeth hys office and takyth the charge of the kepyng of the see
vppon hym . PASTON,II,532.511.12447

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , as for tydyng of beyend see I hyre none certeyn but that the
Frensh Kyng shulde hafe maryed hys doughter to the Kyng of Hungerye
whych had the descomfytur vppon the Turk , and the seyd Kyng ys decesed
wythynne thys vj wekes , or the spousells was made ;
PASTON,II,532.511.12448

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but he ordeyned or he dyed that the Frensh Kynges doughter shuld be
named Qwene of Hungerye duryng hyr lyffe . PASTON,II,532.511.12449

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ry+gt worshypfull ser , I beseche the Blessed Trinite` hafe yow yn hys
gouuernance . PASTON,II,532.511.12450

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wrete at London the fyrst day of Feuer+gere A=o= 36 R. H. vj .
PASTON,II,532.511.12451

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your humble seruaunte W. Botoner dit Worcestre PASTON,II,532.511.12452

<P_II,533>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
More-ouer , please you to wete that William Canynges the marchaunt
wryteth an aunsuere of your lettre . PASTON,II,533.511.12453

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I trust it shall be the better for your wrytyng .
PASTON,II,533.511.12454

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My bro+tere promytted me a certeyn somme when I marryed ,
PASTON,II,533.511.12455

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_511:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I shall hafe it of my suster yff I may . PASTON,II,533.511.12456

<Q_PAS_A_1458_FS_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_512> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_FASTOLF>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1378?>

<P_II,533>

{ED:884._WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_SIR_JOHN_FASTOLF_1458,_PROBABLY_EARL
Y_MARCH}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
<font> To my ryght worshypfull maistere Ser John Fastolf . </font>
PASTON,II,533.512.12457

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ryght worshypfull ser , after dew recommendacion wyth all lowly
obeissaunce , please you to wete that ye shall know the gouuernance
here at Maister Paston commyng to yow more speciallyere then I can
wryte . PASTON,II,533.512.12458

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As to the Kyng , he ys to Berkamstede remeved , PASTON,II,533.512.12459

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and it ys seyd my lordes Somerset , Exceter , Clyfford , and Egremond ,
that rode vppon Thursday last to the Kyng , they commen ageyn to London
; PASTON,II,533.512.12460

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the Lord of Northhumberland ys com to the Kyng at thys tyme after
the lordes departyng owte of London wyth iij m=l= or iiij m=l= peple ,
as it ys seyd , PASTON,II,533.512.12461

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but all toke to a gode pease , and reconysaunces made to kepe the pease
yn gret sommes tille Myghellmasse , that yn the meene tyme to make a
throw pease fynall , by meene of all the lordes .
PASTON,II,533.512.12462

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
John Vyncent of Bentlay was yn Sowthsex at Pryorie of Lowys thys last
weke , PASTON,II,533.512.12463

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and he seyth that lx seyle were seylyng before that costes of
Frensh-men kepyng the see . PASTON,II,533.512.12464

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Lord Fauconberge ys at Hampton wyth hys navye .
PASTON,II,533.512.12465

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Emond Clere of the Kynges house enformed me that he herd of a soudeour
of Calix how Crowmere and Blakeney ys moch spoke off amonges Frensh-men
. PASTON,II,533.512.12466

<P_II,534>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The Kynges safe condyt ys not holden but broken , as it ys voysed here
, PASTON,II,534.512.12467

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and that wille do no gode to marchauntes tille it be amended .
PASTON,II,534.512.12468

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Frute of figes and reysyns be dere here at xviij s. the sort , whete at
x s. le quart , malt at v s . PASTON,II,534.512.12469

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And y tarye the lenger for to abyde the <em> commyng of your </em>
officers of Castelcombe to bryng vpp your money ;
PASTON,II,534.512.12470

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and there shall be sent yow , I trust to God , the somme of xl li. to
yow by Maister Paston <em> ... </em> contented of hys xl li. or I
depart . PASTON,II,534.512.12471

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
The seyd Paston hath seen so well to the conduyt off your costes here
that th <em> ... </em> se that y hope to God ye wille hold you ry+gt
well pleased , who hafe yow yn hys blessed gouuernance .
PASTON,II,534.512.12472

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wret a <em> ... </em> <em> ... </em> PASTON,II,534.512.12473

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:1415?:43?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_FASTOLF:MALE:_:1378?:80?
LETTER:PASTON_512:M4:1458:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
$seruaunte W. Botonere PASTON,II,534.512.12474

<Q_PAS_A_1460_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_513> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_JOHN_BERNEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,538>

{ED:888._FROM_WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_JOHN_BERNEY_1460,_JANUARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the ryght worshypfull John a Bernaye , scuier , at Castre
beyng . </font> PASTON,II,538.513.12475

<P_II,539>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght worchypfull ser , I recommaund me to yow .
PASTON,II,539.513.12476

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the cause of my commyng and taryeng yn London ys forasmoch as I
obliged me by my lettre to be here now and to reken wyth all the
credytours that I caused my maister frendes , God blesse hys soule , to
be suertee for me for the cloth I made be bought for my maister
entierment . PASTON,II,539.513.12477

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd but hald the candell amonges you yn Norffolk ,
PASTON,II,539.513.12478

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I was not put yn fauour ne trust to commaund and yeve yn my maister
name and for hys sake a goune cloth to none of hys frendes , seruauntes
, or almesfolk , PASTON,II,539.513.12479

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but most beg and pray as I were a straunger . PASTON,II,539.513.12480

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yff I caused Maister Paston and myne oncle the parson that they hafe
such autorite` as they hafe , they ought be the fayner and desyrouse of
the contynaunce of myne autorite` , that ys as grete as theyrs or
gretter , whate so evyr Frere Brakle` or they sey ,
PASTON,II,539.513.12481

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so it ys to opynly knowen of record . PASTON,II,539.513.12482

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , I am the same man as ye left me , vpryght and yndyfferent for to
wille and do for my maister asmoch as my symple power may ,
PASTON,II,539.513.12483

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hafe made no promysse to no man , PASTON,II,539.513.12484

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne thus avysed shall not tille I speke wyth the parson myne oncle ,
that myne affeccion ys to sey my hert moste vntoo rather then to such
as wold straunge me from my maister ys frendes and from the gode wille
and fauour of my gode maisters . PASTON,II,539.513.12485

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tho that I hafe holp to be cherysed wyth my maister be now myne
aduersaryes ; PASTON,II,539.513.12486

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there shewyth no gentlenesse of blode ne noble condicion yn that poynt
namely , &c . PASTON,II,539.513.12487

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , who ought more halde wyth me yn reson more then my wyfys oncle yn
all maner causes be reson of myne alliaunce wyth hym , and namely yn my
maister cause that he ys bounde to me and I to hym for the trouth we
owe to our maister and the grete trust he hath put yn hym and me , and
obliged ws by othe ? PASTON,II,539.513.12488

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
A , allas that he or onye such shuld be so nakedly disposed to me where
I nevyr gafe cause . PASTON,II,539.513.12489

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
All myne aduersyte` , trouble yn my spyryttes , thought , and hevynesse
that I susteyn , ye know well whom I do and may wyte it .
PASTON,II,539.513.12490

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Suppose ye that such yefftes and grauntes my maister made to me for my
relieffe yn recompense of my seruyce , that I wille let it passe , and
my maister seruauntes , wyth hys pore kynnesfolk , so symplye rewarded
? PASTON,II,539.513.12491

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I shall be for hem to my symple power as my maister charged me .
PASTON,II,539.513.12492

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ser , at reuerence of God , and for the verray and faythfull lofe ye
hafe to my maister yn the yeeres and dayes that ye dyd hym seruyce yn
the werres , suffred prysonment and manye a sherp day for hys sake not
<P_II,540> rewarded , yhyt meove ye myn oncle the parson , and othyrs
havyng autorite` wyth hym , to peyn hem to do that at ys moste nede for
the helth of my maister soule and for the relieve of all Cristen soules
, and namely for the sustenaunce and encresyng of a comyn weelle .
PASTON,II,540.513.12493

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hyt ys not a comyn proffyt to gefe manye blak gounys to such as nede
none of yeft , and namely yff they be yoven to my maister ennemyes as
som seyn there been , &c . PASTON,II,540.513.12494

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I confesse me to yow , &c . PASTON,II,540.513.12495

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As to tydynges here , I sende som of hem wreten to you and othyrs , how
the Lord Ryuers , Ser Antonye hys son , and othyrs hafe wonne Calix be
a feble assault made at Sandwych by Denham squyer wyth the nombre of
viij=c= men on Twyesday betwene iiij and v at clok yn the mornyng ;
PASTON,II,540.513.12496

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but my lady Duchesse ys stille ayen returned yn Kent .
PASTON,II,540.513.12497

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Duke of York ys at Devylyn strengthed wyth hys erles and homagers ,
as ye shall see by a bille . PASTON,II,540.513.12498

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God sende the Kyng victorie of hys ennemyes and rest and pease amonges
hys lordes . PASTON,II,540.513.12499

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hafe remembred Cristofer of your mater PASTON,II,540.513.12500

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hafe do hym wryte to you by the brynger hereoff .
PASTON,II,540.513.12501

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after ye hafe spoke wyth myne oncle I pray you hertly of a lettre
of gode confort and stedfastnesse of hym . PASTON,II,540.513.12502

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I am ry+gt gretly hevyed for my pore wyfe for the sorow she takyth ,
PASTON,II,540.513.12503

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and most leefe hyr and hyr contree . PASTON,II,540.513.12504

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y shall no thyng take from hyr more then a litill spendyng money tille
better may bee . PASTON,II,540.513.12505

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Blessed Trinite` kepe and sende you helth .
PASTON,II,540.513.12506

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wret at London hastly the Monday after I departed from you , 1459
Cristi . PASTON,II,540.513.12507

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:45?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_BERNEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_513:M4:1460:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your W. Botoner called Wyrcestre PASTON,II,540.513.12508

<Q_PAS_C_1460_T_ALANGLEY> <L_PASTON_514> <A_NAME_UNKNOWN_13>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_STOKES> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,540>

{ED:889._THE_ABBOT_OF_LANGLEY_TO_MASTER_JOHN_STOKES_1460,_8_MAY}_C ODE

<font>

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
To the ryght worchepfull sere , Mayster John Stokes . </font>
PASTON,II,540.514.12509

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
Ryght wurshypful sere , I recomaund me to yow . PASTON,II,540.514.12510

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
And for asmyche as it is informyd me +tat it was appoynted +tat alle
the executores of the wurshepfull knyght Sere John Fastolf , whos soule
God asoyle , shuld be at London as on Monday next comyng , of wheche
executores I am namyd for on , as I ondyrstond , wherfore , in as myche
as ye be ordenary and on of +te same <P_II,541> executores , I prey yow
tendre my laboure wyth-oute my comyng , be youre dyscrecyon , myght be
more profyt to the dede ; PASTON,II,541.514.12511

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
for I conseyue it shuld be but charge to +te dede and lytell avayleable
, consyderyng +tat John Paston , squyere , and Thomas Howys , parson of
Blofeeld , schall come vp at +tis tyme , wheche were +te persones
a-boue all other +tat +te seyd Sere John Fastolf put in hys most
sengulere loue and trust and wold they shuld haue +te kepyng and
dysposecion of hys goodes as wele in hys lyue as after hys deseas to
dyspose for +te well of hys soule , and +tat non other namyd hys
executores but only they tweyn shuld haue ony kepyng or dysposyng of
ony part of hese goodes duryng ther lyues , and that alle other namyd
executores shuld supporte them and geue them to +te seyd John Paston
and Thomas Howys here good avyse in parformyng of hys desyre in that
behalue . Wherfor +tat it lekyth yow in ony thyng ye desyre me to do in
thys cause or matere to geue yowre feyth and credence to +te seyd John
Paston and Thomas Howys ; PASTON,II,541.514.12512

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
and so desyred me +te seyd knyght feythefully to do , that knowyth God
, whom I be-seke preserue yow from alle aduersite` .
PASTON,II,541.514.12513

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
Wretyn in +te Abbey of Langeley the viij day of +te monyth of May the
yeere of Oure Lord m=ll=cccclx . PASTON,II,541.514.12514

AUTHOR:NAME_UNKNOWN_13:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_STOKES:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_514:M4:1460:COPY:OTHER
Youre preest , Abbot of Langeley PASTON,II,541.514.12515

<Q_PAS_A_1469_T_WCOTYNG> <L_PASTON_515> <A_WILLIAM_COTYNG>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_COOK> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,570>

{ED:903._WILLIAM_COTYNG_TO_JOHN_COOK_FOR_RICHARD_CALLE_1469,_9_JAN
UARY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
<font> To John Cook , drapier of Norwich , and +tat he delivere or
sende +tis bille to Richard Kalle in all goodly hast , for +te matier
is of substaunce , &c . </font> PASTON,II,570.515.12516

<P_II,571>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Welbelovid and trusted frend , I comaunde me to yow
PASTON,II,571.515.12517

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
and lete yow vnderstonde +tat this day in +te grey mornyng iij men of
my lord of Norffolk , as thei seide , with longe sperys haue take and
led awey iij good hors fro John Poleyn , on of your fermores at
Tichewell , and ledde hem a-wey , and haue bode hym come and trete with
my lord of Norffolk . PASTON,II,571.515.12518

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
It is gret pete` +tat ther is non other ordenaunce .
PASTON,II,571.515.12519

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Thise pouere fermores are liche to be vndo ; wherfore atte vertu of God
sende tidynges in hast what we shall do , PASTON,II,571.515.12520

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
for swiche an opyn wrong vnremedied knewe I never , ne good and trewe
$men so vnkyndely vexed . PASTON,II,571.515.12521

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
And ye helpe not this matier PASTON,II,571.515.12522

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
I holde a man more +tan wood +tat wolde outher hold lond of yow or do
for yow . PASTON,II,571.515.12523

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
Writen +te Saterday nexte after the Epiphanie . PASTON,II,571.515.12524

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_COTYNG:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_COOK:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_515:M4:1469:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER_CODE_METADATA
W. Cotyng PASTON,II,571.515.12525

<Q_PAS_A_1470_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_516> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_WILLIAM_WAINFLEET>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1400?>

<P_II,583>

{ED:912._WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_WILLIAM_WAINFLEET,_BISHOP_OF_WINCHES
TER_1470,_17_MAY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<font> To the ryght reuerent fader yn God my full worshypfull Lord
Bysshop of Wynchestre , and yn hys absence to my maisters Hervye and
Danvers . </font> PASTON,II,583.516.12526

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please your gode lordshyp to wete that accordyng to your commaundment
and wrytyng I was at the maner of Tychewell , that standyth destitut of
a fermour , for to leete yt to ferme or ell to sett a man to approwe yt
to the best availle . PASTON,II,583.516.12527

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And at my commyng thedre , havyng a comunicacion wyth the olde fermours
and wyth the cheff tenauntys of that towne , they ne none othyr wold
take yt to ferme ne medle to occupye there tille vnto tyme that they
hafe your $wrytyng and a writyng vnder Ser John Paston ys seale
promyttyng and warauntyng that neyther the seyd Ser John Paston ne none
yn hys behalf , nother that none othyr havyng a rule late therebefore ,
shall not distreyn her catell and godes . PASTON,II,583.516.12528

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for Ser William Yeluerton or onye yn hys behalf I seyd I wold
vndretake and warant that none vexacion ne distreyneng shuld be made .
PASTON,II,583.516.12529

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , the seyd tenauntys seyd vnto me that because they were not
ensured to have yt yn ferme at Cristmasse last , or thereaboute , they
coude not make the londes redye yn erthes and tylyeng to do her
husbondrye vppon theyr londz to beere corn , hyred her londez to herye
and sowen yn othyr townes one myle $or ij myle from hem .
PASTON,II,583.516.12530

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , they seyden that they had delyuered vpp the culettys of chepe
and beestes for doubt of distreynyng that they had ghedered to pasture
vppon the mershes , and were bestowed vppon othyr pasturys yn othyr
lordshyppys , that they coude hafe no culettys to lay the pasture wyth
beestys . PASTON,II,583.516.12531

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , I seyd vnto hem that and theyr beestys breke and feede hem vppon
the maner londz the oweners of hem be lyke to be sewed and make amendys
for the trespasse , yn deffaut they wille not take the pastures to
ferme . PASTON,II,583.516.12532

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , yt was promysed that one called Bloy the yonger , late fermour
of that lordshyp , wold come to your lordshyp for remedye yn thys
behalf , whych owyth ix li. of money for ferme and most pay yt at
Pentecost next <P_II,584> by appoyntment made at Norwych at thys Pasch
, or to the assignees of Maister William Yeluerton , yonger , beyng
hym-sylf present , and to the assigne` of Ser John Paston .
PASTON,II,584.516.12533

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , my lord , a wrytyng wold be sent to the tenauntys from Ser John
Paston , knyght , that he ne none yn hys name make no distreynyng ne
manassyng or jnquietyng none tenaunt ne person that occupyeth the
londes ne pastures . PASTON,II,584.516.12534

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for my maister Ser William Yeluerton , I sent word to hys
maistershyp to hafe hys gode avyse , PASTON,II,584.516.12535

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he ensured that none for hym shuld not vex , distreyn , ne jnquyet
hem from hens forward ; PASTON,II,584.516.12536

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I seyd pleynlye to hem . PASTON,II,584.516.12537

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , my lord , the costys and chargys that I hafe born thys x yere
day yn London and yn rydyngys when I awayted vppon the jnfynyte
processe of the decysyng of my Maister Fastolf testamentys yn the Court
of Audience that I am so yndebted and so vnpurveyed of goode to lyven
that I may not ryde ne contynew yn London , but am fayn to wythdrawe me
for my pore solasse to Cambrygge , that ys but a day jorney from my
pore frendes , and to eschew gretter costys to abyde there tille I may
be purveyed of a competent lyveng for me and such as I am constreyned
to kepe and fynde . PASTON,II,584.516.12538

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hyt was promysed me and graunted xxv mark lyfelode o Ser John Paston ys
behalf of my Maister Fastolf londz , xx mark for evyr besyde v mark of
fee terme of lyfe ; PASTON,II,584.516.12539

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hafe not clerely viij mark . PASTON,II,584.516.12540

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And ovyrthat was promysed me xl li. worth lond yn fee for evyr , yn
acquytyng me yn the decysyng and tryeng of the varyeng of testamentys
before specyfyed ; PASTON,II,584.516.12541

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whate I hafe do there-ynne I rapport me to the grete boke of the
processe yn the Court of my lord Cardynalle ys Audyence , and by hys
desyre vndre the fauor and supportacion of hys gode grace to abyde the
vtmost of the processe yn hys hygh Court to be determyned , as I wrote
to yowr lordshyp yn a papier in articles late before Pasch .
PASTON,II,584.516.12542

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And besechyng the Blysfull Trinite` yow preserf yn prosperous helth
long to contynewe . PASTON,II,584.516.12543

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryt at Cambrygge the xvij day of Maij A=o= Cristi .
PASTON,II,584.516.12544

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WAINFLEET:MALE:_:1400?:70?
LETTER:PASTON_516:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yowr humble soget W. Wyrcestre PASTON,II,584.516.12545

<Q_PAS_A_1470_T_WWORCESTER> <L_PASTON_517> <A_WILLIAM_WORCESTER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1415?> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_11>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,584>

{ED:913._WILLIAM_WORCESTER_TO_A_SERVANT_OF_WAINFLEET:DRAFT_1470,_J UNE}

<P_II,585>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forasmoch as because of your long taryeng that I came now to London ,
and vndrestand by my lord ys lettre that hys lordshyp ys purposed to
sende a man of hys yn-too Norffolk yn short tyme . I therfor desyre of
my lord to wete the day of hys rydyng , and whate day he wille ryde by
Cambrygge and so to Tychewell to approwe yt . PASTON,II,585.517.12546

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , hyt were exspedyent that Ser John Paston wryte an opyn letter ,
seled vndre hys sele knowen , to all the tenauntys and othyrs yn
generalle that he ne none yn hys behalf wille not distreyn , noye , ne
vex none tenaunt , fermour , officer , baylly , that fermyth , haldyth
, or occupyeth the maner of Tychewelle ne no part of yt , pastures
aswell as herable londz ; PASTON,II,585.517.12547

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thys lettre wille make the men to be better ensured that the
tenauntys and fermours shall occupye her londz yn rest .
PASTON,II,585.517.12548

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , that an opyn letter be wryt yn my lord ys name to the seyd
tenauntys and fermours , officers , or mynistrours yn my seyd lord ys
name to warnty and vndretake that Ser William Yeluyrton ne none yn hys
behalf shall not distreyn , trouble , ne vex the seyd personys , &c. ,
ne none othyr , but and ony so doo my lord wille deffend yt laufully .
PASTON,II,585.517.12549

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yff thys be doo , yn case the tenauntys wille not take the lordshyp
to ferme , then my lord ys man most for the best avaylle lete yt to
othyr men to ferme . PASTON,II,585.517.12550

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , that a waraunt be made to help shyt vpp and make the see bankys
before the pasturys of Tychewell that at hye spryngys the see brekyth
yn to the pasturs and destroyeth the pasture and also bryngyth the salt
sandes amongys the gras and makyth yt bytter , that the chepe wille not
feede hem vppon yt . PASTON,II,585.517.12551

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the waraunt most be to the somme of iiij mark or v mark .
PASTON,II,585.517.12552

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , yn case my lord desyryth or thynkyth gode and exspedient that
hys seruaunt shall speke wyth Ser William Yeluerton yn that cuntree at
thys seson , as I can vndrestand he most be at Norwych before the feast
of Seynt John Baptiste . PASTON,II,585.517.12553

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he can enforme best whate ys to be don ; PASTON,II,585.517.12554

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yn case he hath gefe my lord ys avyce yn thys mater and yn othyrs
thyngys concernyng thys , so moch the bettere . PASTON,II,585.517.12555

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , ye may sey to my lord that Frere Geffrey Westvale shall be creat
doctor yn theologye at thys fest of Seynt John , whych was longyng to
my Maister Fastolf xx yer passed , of Iermuth conuent then .
PASTON,II,585.517.12556

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And Ser Thomas Howys promysed to help hym , the month before hys decese
, wyth my Maister F. godes . PASTON,II,585.517.12557

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the seyd frere wold hafe com from Cambrygge to my lord yn trust of
hys almes , PASTON,II,585.517.12558

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hafe letted yt for thys tyme . PASTON,II,585.517.12559

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As yt please my lord here-ynne ye may bryng me word .
PASTON,II,585.517.12560

<P_II,586>

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_WORCESTER:MALE:_:1415?:55?
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_11:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_517:M4:1470:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , Maister Briston yn lyke wyse , Maister Spicer , and Maister
Stevyn trustyn vppon me , and dyuers othyrs , to speke to my lord for
relyeve , as ye know well ; and Thomas Fastolf , Milcent Fastolf , and
manye othyrs that make me noyed and werye . PASTON,II,586.517.12561

<Q_PAS_A_1470S_FS_JWYKES> <L_PASTON_518> <A_JOHN_WYKES> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,595>

{ED:918._MEMORANDUM_BY_JOHN_WYKES_NOT_BEFORE_1473}

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Memorandum to enquere where +tat Will Cofe were enfeffed in Rothnall
Halle or in the lond purchased . PASTON,II,595.518.12562

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
To enquere of Tylerd ho was confersaunte wyth Will Cofe of Northcofe
a-fore the day of hys deth ij yere , j yere , di. , or a quarter , and
whethere ony of thoo knwe where any labour was to hym for to make any
astate therof , or of any othere londys , and what tyme and to wham ,
PASTON,II,595.518.12563

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yf they remembre non than I to remembre E. S.
PASTON,II,595.518.12564

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , what seale he vsyd in hys days , and in especyall iij yere
a-fore hys deth . PASTON,II,595.518.12565

<P_II,596>

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , yf Tylerd wer not a-boute hym to comen wyth Gernyngham and suche
as were a-boute hym . PASTON,II,596.518.12566

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , in case +tat it cann be vndere-stond that he made non astate ,
than lete Wodesyde goo to Robert Prymer in hys owyn name , sayng that
John P. ys hys gode mayster in hys mater and +tat he hath comaundyd to
gyte som gode thryfty man in Lovenlond or Metteford that my+gt enquere
and help in the mater , &c. , and that Wodesyde truste no man so well
$as hym . PASTON,II,596.518.12567

AUTHOR:JOHN_WYKES:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:UNKNOWN_RECIPIENT_5:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:PASTON_518:M4:1470S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Item , to knowe yf Tylerd owe Wyll Bondys gode well or no+gt , and yf
he be endefferent then to breke of the mater that longe to G. H.
PASTON,II,596.518.12568

<Q_PAS_C_1467_T_EWOODVILLE> <L_PASTON_519>
<A_ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_--->
<A-DOB_1437?> <R_JOHN_DE_VERE_JR> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_1443>

<P_II,611>

{ED:927._FROM_QUEEN_ELIZABETH_TO_THE_EARL_OF_OXFORD_1467,_25_JUNE}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
<font> To oure right trusty and enterly beloued cosyn th'Erll of Oxn' .
</font> PASTON,II,611.519.12569

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
By the Quene PASTON,II,611.519.12570

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
Ryght trusty and entierly beloued cosyn , we grete you well , lattyng
you wete hou it is commen vn-to oure knowlege that where as +ge newly
entred vpon oure welbeloued Symon Blyant , gentilman , into the maner
of Hemnals in Cotton , descended and belongyng vnto hym by right of
enheritaunce , as it is seid , +ge ther-vpon desired the same Symon to
be agreable for hys part to put all maters of variaunce thenne
dependyng atwene hym and oon Sir John Paston , knyght , pretendyng a
title vn-to the seid maner , in-to th'award and jugement of two lenerd
men by you named and chosen as arbritrours atwene them ; and in case
that the same arbritrours of and vpon the premisses neither yaue oute
nor made suche awarde be-for the brekyng vp of Pasch terme nowe last
passed , +ge of your owne offre graunted and promysid vn-to the seid
Symon , as we be enformed , to restore hym forwyth <P_II,612>
there-vpon vnto hys possession of the seid maner . And how it be that
the same Symon at youre mocion and for the pleasir of youre lordshyp ,
as he seith , aggreed vn-to the seid compromyse , and ther-vpon brought
and shewed hys evydence concernyng and sufficiently provyng hys ryght
in the seid maner vn-to the seid arbritrours , and that they haue not
made nor yolden out be-twene the seid parties any suche award ;
PASTON,II,612.519.12571

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
yet haue not +ge restored the same Symon vnto hys possession of the
seid maner , PASTON,II,612.519.12572

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
but contynuelly kepe hym owt of the same , wich yf it so be is not only
to hys right grete hurt and hinderaunce but also oure mervaile .
Wherfore we desire and pray you ryght affectueusly that +ge woll the
rather , at the contemplacion of thees oure lettres , shew vnto the
said Symon in hys rightffull interesse and title in the seid maner all
the fauorable lordshyp that +ge goodely may , doyng hym to be restored
and put in-to hys lawfull and peasible possession of the same asfer as
reason , equite` , and good conscience shall require , and youre seid
promise , jn suche wyse that he may vndyrstond hym-selfe herynne to
fare the better for oure sake , as oure verray trust is in you .
PASTON,II,612.519.12573

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
Yeuen vnder oure signet at my lordes palois of Westmynstre the xxv day
of Juyn . PASTON,II,612.519.12574

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_YORK[N.WOODVILLE]:FEMALE:_:1437?:30?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_DE_VERE_JR:MALE:_:1443:24
LETTER:PASTON_519:M4:1467:COPY:OTHER
Subskrybyd with +te Quenys hand . PASTON,II,612.519.12575
