<B_PEPYS>

<Q_PEP_A_1663_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_001> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_1>

{ED:1._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
May 16 , 1663 PEPYS,1.001.1

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir . believing that the wearysomenesse of your late journy is by this
time throughly over , and being unwilling to delay the stateing to you
in writing the present posture of our affaires for a guide to you in
your future expences <paren> which for the time to come I hope you will
understand it to bee necessary by all ways possible to lessen </paren>
I have thought fitt to take this time of doeing it , PEPYS,1.001.2

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and in the first place must reminde you , that after our many great
disbursements upon Repayres , funeral charges , paying of debts and
legacys , and a deare housekeeping there remaynes yet behinde , Six
hundred and fifteene pounds unpayd in debts and Legacys ; Towards which
wee have comeing to us by your hands and myne according to the
perticulers mentioned in a paper annexed - 376 +L , which as fast as it
comes in is to bee employed towards the payment of the aforesayd Debt .
PEPYS,1.001.3

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And there will remayne to bee provided for , the sum of 238 +L 11s more
then wee have any mony comeing to us to make good , but what shall
arise out of the rents of the estate . PEPYS,1.001.4

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Now the Rents of the estate , which remaynes unsold at this day amount
to 75 +L , , per annum all taxes and charges deducted , as by the
enclosed accompt you will perticularly see . Out of which 75 +L wee
being to pay 25 +L to my uncle Thomas and Aunt Perkins , there will
rest but +L and 9s per annum towards your maintenance and the payment
of the above-sayd debt of 238 +L 11s , which debt however seeing it
must bee payd soone or late and that wee may the sooner bee ridd of all
trouble and clamours , wee did at your being here conclude it necessary
to sell Sturtlow , which by Will Stankes 's reckoning may yeeld +L out
of which my Brother Thomas may bee supplyed with +L for his share
<paren> which will bee a very plentifull provision for him </paren> and
pay the debt of 238 +L 11s , <P_2> besides a remaynder of 4I +L , which
it is too probable wee shall have occasions enough of laying out in
charges of Courts , repayres , and following the law against Tom Trice
, with other charges I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} now thinke of .
PEPYS,2.001.5

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But that which follows next to bee considered is how you and my mother
shall bee maintayned out of what remaynes when Sturtlow is sold which
will bee but 29 +L per annum . PEPYS,2.001.6

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This I confesse is a very sad consideration , That after soe much
expectation , trouble and removing your selfe from a better condition
you should finde noe better provision made for you then a house to live
in and 29 +L a yeare . PEPYS,2.001.7

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But Sir as it helpes us nothing to afflict ourselfe for what wee $can
$not {TEXT:cannot} prevent , soe doth it concerne us more to study how
to improve the best wee can that little which is left . PEPYS,2.001.8

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And that I may not appeare wanting to the best of my ability to
encourage and assist you herein , I am contented to make up the losse
of Sturtlow to you out of my owne purse , soe that you may have entire
+L a yeare to live upon , till by the death of my uncle Thomas , or the
falling of the Wardrob 's plase it may bee raysed to you some other way
. PEPYS,2.001.9

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
You $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but thinke that for mee to part with twenty
pounds a yeare out of my purse in steade of haveing +L a yeare and the
rent of Sturtlow as the Will gives mee is an unwellcome burthen ;
PEPYS,2.001.10

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Sir I have two designes <paren> besides my duty in generall to bee
assisting to you </paren> which if I bee not disappointed in I shall
thinke my parting with that Summe very well bestowed . PEPYS,2.001.11

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
1. I would by this oblige my mother and you to the study of thrift and
quietnesse , that I may heare noe more of those differences , which to
my great griefe I have of late understood doe often arise betweene you
. PEPYS,2.001.12

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
From whence they come I know not , nor am willing to enquire ,
PEPYS,2.001.13

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But this I know , that it did not use to bee soe , nor I trust in god
will bee here after , there being nothing that I can hope or doe wish
for you more , then that the abatement of your plenty may bee made up
in the encrease of your peace . PEPYS,2.001.14

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
2. I hope hereby not only my selfe to bee at a certainty , what it is
<P_3> that I must provide to spare out of my owne expences for you ,
but you alsoe when you shall see thoroughly what it is and noe more
that you can expect either-7 from the estate , or mee , will not
<paren> as you have hitherto </paren> spend at a guesse but will bee
able at every months or Quarters end to tell , whether you doe excede
or come within your allowance . PEPYS,3.001.15

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I must needs further say , that considering you live rent free ,
and I hope free from any future charge for my Brother John or any of
your Children but Pall , that +L a yeare will bee thought a good
competence . Especially if all ways of thrift bee studyed , as I hope
you will all of you thinke it necessary from hence forward to doe .
PEPYS,3.001.16

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And by the way lett mee tell you , that if I understand any thing of
thrift , it $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee any good husbandry to such a
family as yours to keep either hoggs , poultry , sheepe , cowes ,
<paren> or horses more then one </paren> there being meate of all sorts
, milke , butter , cheese eggs fowle and every thing elce to bee had
cheaper and I am sure with more quiet at the market , if not at your
doore , then for you to keepe them besides the danger of theyr dying or
being stolne . PEPYS,3.001.17

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This I desire you and my mother to consider of , and if you judge it as
I doe to bee good husbandry , then not to scruple the parting with them
upon any other pretences , but sell them off ; by which , being now on
even ground and the rents from Lady day last comeing to you , you will
bee the better able to spare the other monys mentioned in the enclosed
paper for the payment of Debts and Legacys , without which we shall
never bee able to cleare our selfes thereof . PEPYS,3.001.18

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But if after all this you shall finde , that +L per annum will not doe
; I beleive you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but know that for that mony you
and my mother may bee boarded well either-1 in City or Country and
<paren> Pall being placed abroad in some good service </paren> spend
your days without further cares or charge . PEPYS,3.001.19

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
All this I doe earnestly recommend to your selfe and my mother to
consider of , it being the greatest wish I have in the world , that by
my advice and purse <paren> soe farr as I can without wrong to her whom
I am obliged to make provision for </paren> I may bee able to assist
you in makeing such provision for you as may enable you to passe the
remaynder of your time with a sufficiency of estate and ease .
PEPYS,3.001.20

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Soe craving your blessings I remayne Your ever obedient Sonn Samuel
Pepys PEPYS,3.001.21

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have sent you alsoe herein a Copy of the Severall lands wee have in
Brampton , how they are lett and to whom , that you may see what <P_4>
the rents of the whole come to , and what the taxes and other charges
thereupon doe amount to . PEPYS,4.001.22

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:30
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:62
LETTER:PEPYS_001:E3:1663:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For my father . PEPYS,4.001.23

<Q_PEP_A_1664_FN_JPEPYSSR> <L_PEPYS_002> <A_JOHN_PEPYS_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1601> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_10>

{ED:7._JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July . 1664 PEPYS,10.002.24

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
dear Soon you will find by the inclosed that the foule mouthed docter
is resolved to be troublesom PEPYS,10.002.25

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it was with the consent of his brother mr Roger PEPYS,10.002.26

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for <P_11> thay ware both with mr fillips that brought me this letter .
PEPYS,11.002.27

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thay gote a promise from him to be for them befor thay told him aganst
home it was . PEPYS,11.002.28

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and sent the note to him after ward and docter tomess note that he had
under your brother hand for +L PEPYS,11.002.29

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but noe seal to it . PEPYS,11.002.30

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he did acknowleg to me and your brother John that it was but +L 8 pound
that was due to him PEPYS,11.002.31

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thare was 19s and 6d was in your brothers book which was due to him
of that +L 8 . </paren> PEPYS,11.002.32

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
i was with mr fillips this morning PEPYS,11.002.33

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
& he shoed me the note for the pound . PEPYS,11.002.34

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I see noe seal to it /, PEPYS,11.002.35

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
& i told him thare shuld be noe need of troubling a baly to serve the
leet . / PEPYS,11.002.36

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
tharefore pray good child let thare be som theng done in it .
PEPYS,11.002.37

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nether can i know how an new inventery can be mad the goods is so
disparsed . PEPYS,11.002.38

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if you have aded the mony which is 24s for the 3 shirtes and for the
clothe . and a letter case . I can but tak my oth - as i have done all
redy - that i have mad a true inventery of all things that was his
PEPYS,11.002.39

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you have receved my last letter with the $receipt inclosed under
toms hand for an acknowlegment that the goods were mine with the other
paper which was writ not a quarter of a year before he died whare in he
wished i wold mak and asinement of my goods over to him .
PEPYS,11.002.40

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now in answer to your last I have spoken to will Stancks
PEPYS,11.002.41

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he will sift out Steven wilson and foxe what was due when your
uncle died PEPYS,11.002.42

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he is afeared that foxe hath payd your uncle . PEPYS,11.002.43

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I wished w. Stancks to let him know if he pleeds $, that he had noe
write to it tell he was admited to it . PEPYS,11.002.44

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and for ashtone Stanckes $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell what it shuld be
for that thare shuld be mony due from him for the close .
PEPYS,11.002.45

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thar was an acker that belonged to an other man that your uncle never
agreed for PEPYS,11.002.46

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but thinking he might have it at any time yelded to pay 8s a year tell
he had concluded for it . PEPYS,11.002.47

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and soe your uncle set trees and dichet PEPYS,11.002.48

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and set a queck set as far as that acker went $. PEPYS,11.002.49

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he that ode {ED:owned} it being dead it is Latin {ED:letten} to an
nother PEPYS,11.002.50

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he hath taken it to his one use . PEPYS,11.002.51

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it was the land that the hay cock stood one . PEPYS,11.002.52

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Stanckes gote the gate removed when i was at london last .
PEPYS,11.002.53

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so prices mony is not to be payd tell mickellmus or the next cort that
we give <P_12> up our write to him in the land . PEPYS,12.002.54

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for the +L 39 pound which is yet due to us from piget i doe not know
what $security we are like to have from him for it more then we have
all redy . PEPYS,12.002.55

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
we must indever to mak sale of soe much as is left for soe much as is
left unpayd . PEPYS,12.002.56

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
i doe not yet understand hoe it is that is to give sattisfackshon for
the none payment of $rent from the time that it shuld be payd .
PEPYS,12.002.57

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
as for barten bisnes thare is 7 rodes of that land your uncle had of
old barten which is worth a matter of 15 or 16 +L to be sold .
PEPYS,12.002.58

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thes and soe much more as mad it up 14 or 16 +L a yeare was geven to
old barten and his wife and to the are male of them to after thare
desest . PEPYS,12.002.59

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
this was geven 4 years befor the oner died . PEPYS,12.002.60

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
when he died he gave all the rest of his estate to old barten .
PEPYS,12.002.61

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} find any writing that bartan was ingaged
to your uncle for to cleare this . PEPYS,12.002.62

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if we cold find any thing then we cold tak a corse with the old man .
PEPYS,12.002.63

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} if the old man die it comes to the young
man PEPYS,12.002.64

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and we $can $not {TEXT:cannot} hinder him . PEPYS,12.002.65

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr Narborow hath a good bart of this land PEPYS,12.002.66

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hath sold it to price PEPYS,12.002.67

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and price hath the bennefet of it this year . PEPYS,12.002.68

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it is thought he refueses to paye mr narborow tell he hath cleared this
thing . PEPYS,12.002.69

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
i desird he wold act for us as wel as himself and according to the
valluashan of ours we wold contribute toward the charges .
PEPYS,12.002.70

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you will doe very well to write to him and at your uncle whiles you may
know how to have your letter convade . PEPYS,12.002.71

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
not receveing a letter by york makes me fear thare is som hinderance of
my daughters coming next week . PEPYS,12.002.72

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if thare be i shall be very sory for it PEPYS,12.002.73

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for i shold be very glad to see her hear as sone as can be .
PEPYS,12.002.74

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
dear Child I am very much troubled what my lords potiecarries fear is
of you - that you have an ulser <P_13> groeing in your kidnes .
PEPYS,13.002.75

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for godsak let me beg of you that you will have mr holards advice and
som able docter of his acquantance with as much speed as {with}_P you
can . PEPYS,13.002.76

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and to beg a blesing from the lord that your life may be preserved
PEPYS,13.002.77

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for what a sad condishan shuld your poor old father and mother be in if
the lord shuld tak you before us . PEPYS,13.002.78

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
i shall be very glad if any lines com to will stanck to day
PEPYS,13.002.79

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for our bisnes requires his spedie asistance . PEPYS,13.002.80

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thiss with mine and your mothers very kindely be presented to you both
with your sisters service PEPYS,13.002.81

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:63
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:31
LETTER:PEPYS_002:E3:1664:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
i rest hoe shall ever be Your very loving father John Pepys
PEPYS,13.002.82

<Q_PEP_A_1670_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_003> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_16>

{ED:10._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March 26. PEPYS,16.003.83

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother . something hath offered it selfe which may prove of advantage
to you , that makes it necessary for mee to have you here on Tuesday
night next . PEPYS,16.003.84

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is an employment into which some or other must bee elected on
Wednesday morning . PEPYS,16.003.85

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If my endeavours for you succede it will bee a good provision for you .
PEPYS,16.003.86

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If it doe not , it is very well worth a journy to attempt it .
PEPYS,16.003.87

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am sensible this may bee inconvenient to my Brother Jackson ;
PEPYS,16.003.88

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I hope some way or other may bee found to putt off the meeting on
his businesse for a few days . PEPYS,16.003.89

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For whither this succedes or not , you shall bee at liberty in a few
days to returne for a little time . PEPYS,16.003.90

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therefore pray fayle not to bee here on Tuesday night next .
PEPYS,16.003.91

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I begg my fathers blessing PEPYS,16.003.92

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and rest Your loving Brother S Pepys PEPYS,16.003.93

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For my Loving Brother Mr John Pepys at Ellington neere Huntington .
PEPYS,16.003.94

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Leave this with the Post-maister at Huntington , to be speedily sent as
directed . PEPYS,16.003.95

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:37
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:29
LETTER:PEPYS_003:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
S. P. PEPYS,16.003.96

<Q_PEP_A_1670_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_004> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_17>

{ED:11._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Deale PEPYS,17.004.97

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the 11th June PEPYS,17.004.98

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honoured Sir This comes humbly to acquinte you that yesterday Sailed
out of the Dounes the faulcon and Speedwell <paren> bound for the River
Thames </paren> , and that i have a parfect muster-booke from the
Purser of the falcon now , whoe brought it me a Shore acording to
Promise PEPYS,17.004.99

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I am a preparing them to be Sent to your Office within this 2 days
which i hope $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} time Enough for the Shipps be-fore
thay be paid off , PEPYS,17.004.100

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yesterday there came into the Downes a Duch plesure boat with a penant
above her anchent which when i Saw <paren> walking upon the beach with
Mr Coulmer </paren> i said to Mr Coulmer , let you and I goe on board
her , and See what Shee doth heere , PEPYS,17.004.101

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe wee went PEPYS,17.004.102

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and founde on board 2 or 3 brave gallants amongst whome <paren> as hee
Said </paren> the Duch Imbassadors brother whose plesure boat this was
; PEPYS,17.004.103

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
hee kindely Entertained us with a botell of wine , PEPYS,17.004.104

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and tould us hee came for plesir to See all along the Coast , Saing hee
had bine at Dover , and that after hee had bine ashore at Deale , hee
woold goe to Sandwich , from thence to , and through all the Creekes
and view Sherenesse , and Chatham and then to London ; PEPYS,17.004.105

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and woold if hee could <paren> hee Said </paren> saile his boat for +L
with any of the Kings plesure boats PEPYS,17.004.106

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haveing nothing more of Newes to present you with , <paren> with all
our most humble Dutys : Respects , and Serveces to you </paren> I
remaine Your Most faithfull and Obedient Servant B st Michel for his
Majesties Service . PEPYS,17.004.107

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:37
LETTER:PEPYS_004:E3:1670:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Honourable Samuell Pepys Esquire at the Navy Office in Seathing
lane . these . London . PEPYS,17.004.108

<Q_PEP_A_1672_FN_PJACKSON> <L_PEPYS_005> <A_PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1640> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_17>

{ED:12._PAULINA_JACKSON_TO_JOHN_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March the 5 : $1671/2 PEPYS,17.005.109

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Good brother Wee all retorn our harty thanks to you for your very good
Ioysters , which my father will repaye you , what you have desbursd for
them and the lettell boyes hate , which as yet wee have not receved .
PEPYS,17.005.110

<P_18>

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
as for the mony you shall not fale of the greatest part of it the next
week - thoe it pots us to some inconvenince . PEPYS,18.005.111

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for with in thes month wee have lade out above a hundered pound in
barly for molting PEPYS,18.005.112

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but you shal not be long with out the rest with all due thanks to you
for your love to us / PEPYS,18.005.113

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I bles god my father is in good health and your boye thrifes bravely
PEPYS,18.005.114

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all our respects love and service presented to you - PEPYS,18.005.115

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I remane Your most afectshonat Sister Paullina Jackson PEPYS,18.005.116

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:32
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:31
LETTER:PEPYS_005:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For Mr John Pepys in the Navy Office in Sething Lane London
PEPYS,18.005.117

<Q_PEP_C_1672_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_006> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_19>

{ED:14._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
22 June 1672 PEPYS,19.006.118

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty I came last night home from the Fleete , where I have
spent about 5 days . PEPYS,19.006.119

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thanke God I am well , saveing some little disorder an uneasy
lodgeing for so many nights hath given me . PEPYS,19.006.120

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
At my comeing backe I finde a very kinde Letter from your selfe for
which I am your Debtor , and alsoe for your last , wherein you take
notice of some of the worlds late discourses , and your hopes
nevertheless concerneing me , the success whereof what ever it may be ;
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but advise you to make this use of it , that
even dilligence and integrity its selfe is not always defence enough
against censure , nor can be while Envy remaines in the world , and
that therefore you are by all honest improvements of your time to
provide against a Day where possibly I in my place may not be able to
helpe you , nor you in yours be able to helpe your selfe .
PEPYS,19.006.121

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I tell you this out of a very serious reflection upon what you may very
possibly finde my condition to prove ; PEPYS,19.006.122

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and to shew you the more that I am not without apprehensions of that
sort , I have laboured now within a day or two to get that from the
Duke for you , which I have respited for so many yeares to looke after
, least it should fall out of my power to procure it , I meane his
Royal Highness 's Commission to you for your present Employment .
Wherein I doe both desire and charge you to behalfe your selfe soe ,
that your owne merit <paren> if possible </paren> may continue you in
that , which the endeavour of your freinds have by Gods blessing
brought you into . PEPYS,19.006.123

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I say not this with soe much a seemeing Melancholly , as if I would
have you lay aside your expectations of good success , but to caution
you against the worst effects of bad . A doctrine which I the rather
press upon you from the trouble that it in some degree gives me , that
I noe sooner learnt it my selfe . PEPYS,19.006.124

<P_20>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_006:E3:1672:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe with my blessing to my God Sonn and Love and Service to all . I
remaine , Your very affectionate Brother and Servant S P_NPR
PEPYS,20.006.125

<Q_PEP_A_1672_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_007> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_20>

{ED:15._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Deale PEPYS,20.007.126

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the 14th August 1672 PEPYS,20.007.127

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honoured Sir You dayly and howerly soe comble me with <paren> not only
Expresions but allsoe </paren> deeds of your worthyness , and Goodness
, as well to my selfe , as the rest of your most devoted humble
Creaturs heare , that I am <paren> as well as my poore drooping mother
, whoose continuall illness since the death of my father , gives me but
litell hopes shee will survive him longe <paren> only but to be
sumthing longer a living wittness of your deareness to her poore Childe
, your Late deare Consort , My beloved sister </paren> by that your
Noble , worthy , and kinde Expresions and promices to be still her
benefactor , for which shee hath only <paren> saith shee </paren> the
capasity lefte her , to Bless god for your prosperty , and to Continue
still her prayers to the allmyty god , to power upon you , and yours
Multitude of heavenly Blessings ; PEPYS,20.007.128

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
theese Sir are her owne Expresions , and I am sure from the very Botome
of her harte and sowle </paren> PEPYS,20.007.129

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am then sir as I said Confuted in my selfe how I may Ever strive to
deserve , the least of those your manyfould , gratious , good , kinde ,
Fatherly , and Deare <paren> not only Expresions </paren> but Efects
which I for Ever shall owne . PEPYS,20.007.130

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
well sir since I fear it will never lye in my power to serve you as I
ought <paren> without devoteing My life and fortunes at your feete be
pleased to acept , and Comande both upon all Occasions . which you will
finde , with soe Much Zeale still ; for you , and your Cause , that
never Man living , will Ever be Named more Gratefull <paren> as I am In
<P_21> duty bounde </paren> to your Favours and More Zealous for your
Consernes , and interest ; then him whoe is proud to be sir Your Most
Faithfull and Obedient humble servant B St Michel PEPYS,21.007.131

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Litell Samuell <paren> whoe Speakes now very pretely </paren> desiers
to have his most humble duty presented to his Most Honoured Uncle , and
Godfather , which please to accept from your Most humble litell disiple
. PEPYS,21.007.132

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
This day the dragon is come into the Downes which to moroe god willing
I intend to Muster . PEPYS,21.007.133

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
pray present my most kinde and Humble service to my Cosen John Pepys .
PEPYS,21.007.134

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
B St M PEPYS,21.007.135

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_007:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Honourable Samuell Pepys Esquire at the Navy Office in seathing
Lane . these . London . PEPYS,21.007.136

<Q_PEP_A_1672_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_008> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_21>

{ED:16._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Deale PEPYS,21.008.137

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the 11th September 1672 PEPYS,21.008.138

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honoured Sir I have perused and Studied upon your most Dear and more
then fatherly kinde advices , for which you may Sir beleeve , and know
, how much I finde in my very harte and sowle that I am obliged to your
goodness for which I cann returne nothing but my most humble thankes
with Offers of my perpetuall Obedience , not only in relation to this
perticular of Sick and woonded , but allsoe those others favours past ,
<paren> but never my Memory </paren> wherein you have shewed your selfe
for goodness and kindeness <paren> not only to my selfe ; but allsoe to
the rest of your Humble Creaturs my relations </paren> farr Exceeding
<paren> for Honour and Dear Kindeness </paren> all the Expresions
<paren> in acknowledgement thereof </paren> I am able to Utter .
PEPYS,21.008.139

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Now Sir in answer to your kinde lignes and advice of the 7th instant ,
you may please to know that I have and shall , take soe much care to
keepe my selfe from Hazarding much of my owne , either-2 by Credit or
Specie that I hope never to give you Cause to accuse me of
Unadvisedness ; PEPYS,21.008.140

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
therefore I humbly begg you will please to goe on , with my former
desier in the getting Mr Peirce the Chyrurgn Generall <paren> to whoome
be pleased to present my most <P_22> Humble Service </paren> his favour
and kindeness to me and this towne for the sending Sick and woonded men
Heare , where thay are not and have not bine only provided for <paren>
I am sure </paren> better then any other place , but allsoe from whence
noe Complaint since my time hath Ever bine made for theire ill Usage or
want ; PEPYS,22.008.141

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
besides wee haveing soe few heere now , $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} the
better argument <paren> had Mr Peirce noe perticular kindeness for me
though i doubt not but hee hath </paren> for sick men to be sent hither
, where our cleanly nurses houses are redy now to reseave them being
now Emtey I haveing prety well Cleared this towne , and Consequently
Eased his Majesty 's Charges by returning them as fast as posible I
could when Cured to theire respective shipps soe that wee have very few
heere now , and as I said before the nurses houses redy to reseave
others when thay shall come , PEPYS,22.008.142

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
better I say then to be throunged upp and indeed partely murthered
<paren> as at Gravesende </paren> occasioned by theire Multitude at one
place , and want of good payment <paren> may be </paren> from my
breatheren Deputy Comissioners , the latter of which i thanke god hath
not bine heere , which makes that my Nurses heere flock about me to
receive them , when thay come on Shoare . PEPYS,22.008.143

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
besides in my aprehention you may please to tell Mr Peirce , $'t $would
{TEXT:twoold} be much Easier for the poore sick men , and less Charge
to his Majesty , to sende from the Bouy of the Oare some by sea to this
place and heare abouts , then a glutt of at Gravesende from whence thay
must {ED:be} hurryed <paren> when sick to the very harte </paren> in
Cartes and wagons <paren> which I aprehende is but litell Ease to poore
sick men </paren> when the towne is or was full to the adjasant Country
Vilages , PEPYS,22.008.144

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but if Every place had theire proportion <paren> when neere anough
</paren> it woold hinder those Contagious diseases , which multitudes
of sick in one place may Occasion . PEPYS,22.008.145

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this Sir I only mention to your perticular selfe and noe other .
PEPYS,22.008.146

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus begging your pardon for this long truble , and desiring you woold
please to write to Mr Peirce Speedely to be soe kinde to his humble
servant as to sende us sume heither PEPYS,22.008.147

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I shall be Much Obliged to him as well as Our Churgeon Mr Hannam
whoose profiet it is to have many haveing soe much a Cure . which with
Litell Samuell {ED:'s} humble returne of thankes for your Most Kinde
remembrance of your litell disiple and the most humble devotions of all
the rest of yours heare I remaine Sir Your Most Faithful and obedient
humble servant B St Michel PEPYS,22.008.148

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:39
LETTER:PEPYS_008:E3:1672:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the honourable Samuel Pepys Esquire at the Navy Office in Seathing
Lane These London PEPYS,22.008.149

<Q_PEP_C_1674_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_009> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_23>

{ED:18._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby House PEPYS,23.009.150

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
January 19th {ED:16} 73 {ED:/4} PEPYS,23.009.151

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty . I have seen your letters to Mr Evelyn PEPYS,23.009.152

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am Sorry for the Obstruction which the refractoriness of the two
persons you name occasions to the Kings Service . PEPYS,23.009.153

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I desire you to Lett me know whatt Obligations the King can bee thought
to have upon those men , by which hee Should exact this Service from
them more then from any other of the Towne , Whether there bee not
moneys att this day due to them for former disbursements in this
Servise , And whether their refuseall to proceed further in this
Service , bee grounded upon any other reason then the want of the money
they have allready disbursed , which is all att present from Your
affectionate Brother and Servant , S. P_NPR . PEPYS,23.009.154

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_009:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
This I do , that I may know what to informe his Majesty , and my Lords
touching the true ground of your Complaints and what may be reasonable
to advise should be done for the correcting of the misbehaviours of the
persons you complaine of . PEPYS,23.009.155

<Q_PEP_A_1674_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_010> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_25>

{ED:21._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Deale , PEPYS,25.010.156

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the 8th February 1673/4 PEPYS,25.010.157

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honoured Sir In answer to yours of last night which received this
morning at 8 of the Clock : I wonder indeed that you , whoose life and
Conversation , hath bine ever knowne to be a Ferme Protestant , shoold
now <P_26> be Caled in question of being a papist ; PEPYS,26.010.158

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but Sir Malice and Envey will still oppress the best of Men ; wherefore
Sir to the hazard of my life i will proove <paren> if Occasion be
</paren> with my sworde in my hand <paren> since it hath touched soe
neare of the memory of my Dear sister </paren> that your Competitor is
a False lier in his throught , PEPYS,26.010.159

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
as to your haveing Eather an Alter in your House , or that my Dear
sister Ever since shee had the Honour to be your wife , or to her Death
had the least thoughts of Popery , this I know , by my not only often
Conversation with her my selfe , but in my Presence on time ,
PEPYS,26.010.160

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
i remember , shee haveing some discourse with my Father , conserning
your life and Conversation , as well as Fortunes ; PEPYS,26.010.161

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this was his speech with her , that amongst the Greatest of the
Happinesses hee injoyed in his minde , was that shee had by matching
with you , not only wedded wisdome ; but allsoe one whoe by it , hee
hoped in Christ , would quite bloute out , those Foolish , Phopish
thoughts , shee might in her more tender yeares have had of Popery ,
PEPYS,26.010.162

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
theese <paren> to the Best of my memory </paren> ware his very words ;
to which her reply was <paren> Kissing his Eyes , which shee loved
dearly </paren> PEPYS,26.010.163

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
dear Father said shee , though in my tender yeares I was , by my low
Fortune in this world deluded to popery by the Fonde-didly thereof ; I
have now a man to my husbande soe wise , and one so religious in the
Protestant religion <paren> Joyned with my riper yeares which gives me
more understanding </paren> to Ever suffer my thought to bende that way
any more . PEPYS,26.010.164

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But Sir , I have given you two much truble with one thinge ;
PEPYS,26.010.165

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Now to what you desir as to the Knoledge how , and when , the Popish
Fancis ware first put in my Poore Dear Sisters head ; which <paren> to
the best of my memory </paren> in Every Pointe I shall declare to you .
PEPYS,26.010.166

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
First my Father , Sonn to the High-Shreeve of Boge <paren> in Anjou in
France </paren> a Papist and all his Famely , in which religion ,
allsoe my Father was bread , and continued in , till hee was 21 yeares
, at which time , <paren> hee being then in the German service </paren>
turned Protestant , PEPYS,26.010.167

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and without trubling you with the rest of his life there , till hee
returned to France , I shall only say that hee did soe ; where hee
Found his Father Dead , haven given all hee had <paren> heering of my
Fathers being turned Hugenot as hee termed it </paren> in mariage with
his Daughter <paren> my Fathers only sister </paren> soe that my Father
, being disinherited of all for his religionsake , had nothing lefte
but his sword and Freindes , to preferr him in the world <paren> though
an Uncle of my Fathers a Chanoine of Parris {TEXT:whoe} loved
{ED:him}_NP-OB1 soe well , that hee promised to make him his Aire and
Give him livres Tournois which is about +L sterling , if he woold but
goe to mass againe , PEPYS,26.010.168

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but all <paren> to this deare man whoe lived and died a $saintely life
</paren> nor any thing could shake his resolutions of Continuance in
the true Protestant Cause ; PEPYS,26.010.169

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
at last Fortune <P_27> in this world seemed to smile one him againe ,
PEPYS,27.010.170

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
hee being <paren> as you knew Sir </paren> a Gentleman , Extreamely
well-bread , got him the Frends <paren> to geather with his Name and
Quality being of a very Good house in France </paren> to preferr him
<paren> when the Match was Concluded , between his Majesty Charles the
First of Blessed memory , and the Daughter of France , to be of her
retenue , in the Place of one of her Gentlemen Carvers ,
PEPYS,27.010.171

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
soe hee Came over with her Majesty , PEPYS,27.010.172

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but longe had hee not Continued heere in her service , but the Cloudes
of his Misfortunes <paren> as to the Losse of his place </paren>
Frowned on him againe , being tooke notice of by some of the Friers
that hee came not to Mass , PEPYS,27.010.173

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
was by it imediattly knowne to be what hee was Viz : a Very strong and
Firme protestant , soe that the Queene dismissed him , his imployment ,
hee having in discourse and Controversy of religion struck a Frier :
PEPYS,27.010.174

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Well <paren> as I said before and as your Honour knew </paren> hee
being a man not only Extreame Hansome , but allsoe of mightey winning
Courtely Partes , went For Irelande where hee soone by it wone the
Afection of my mother , Daughter , to Sir Francis Kingsmall and then
late widow to an Irish Esquire , PEPYS,27.010.175

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
soe my Father , After hee had Maried her , though much to the dislike
of her Freinds <paren> my Lord Moore , &c </paren> with what moneys
thay could then raise being +L , intended for France againe <paren>
with his wife my mother , to indeavour by Law <paren> to recover if
Posible some parte of his Fathers Estate , </paren> with his sister ;
PEPYS,27.010.176

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but in his prosedure haveing turned the moneys hee had into Goods
marchandable For France , at sea hee and Goods were all tooke by the
Dunkirckers , and hee allsoe prisoner some munths , soe that hee and my
Mother were again to begeen the World , PEPYS,27.010.177

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but hee , being Bread to Nothing but the sworde ; that was his recourse
, PEPYS,27.010.178

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and by it had in his time many Very Honourable Comisions both-1 in
France , Holland and Germany as well as England ; PEPYS,27.010.179

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
hee For some time settled him selfe upon that litell hee hadd in
Devonsheire at a Place Caled Bidiford , where , and thereabouts my
sister and wee all ware borne . PEPYS,27.010.180

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir my Small age at those times hinders my giving you soe Exact accompt
as I could wish ; $how $that {TEXT:how-that} , at last my Father ,
Mother and Famely went For France againe , PEPYS,27.010.181

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
neather cann I tell on what accompt PEPYS,27.010.182

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
only at First I remember that hee Caried a Compagny of Foot under his
Comande by order of Englande , to Assiste the French against the
Spaniard in the taking of Dunkirck , and Arrass which was about the
yeare 1648 or 9 PEPYS,27.010.183

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
neather any Further acompt cann I say wee went to parris about , but
that my Father <paren> at last </paren> grew Full of wheemesis , and
Propositions <paren> of Perpetuall Motions &c </paren> to Kings ,
Princes , and others , which <P_28> Soaked his Pockett , and brought
all our Famely soe low <paren> by his not minding anything Elce
spending all hee had or had Gott and Getting noe other imployment to
bring in More </paren> as nothing more , and my Mother <paren> For
Feare of her Childrens want </paren> into Extreame trubles ,
PEPYS,28.010.184

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
at last shee was persuaded by some deluding Papists , namely Madame
Trouson , a Rich Counselers wife , Mr Duplesis a Rich Advocat of the
Parlement , with many others Pretended Devouts , that if my Mother with
her Children would gett From her husbande my Father , that Damned
trublesome Hugenot <paren> as thay Cauled , him </paren> thay woold
provide For all of uss namely my Mother , sister and selfe by Allowing
her a Considerable allowance Fitting a Gentlewooman of her Quality ,
Give a Rounde some of Moneys and Make My sister a Nunn , and my selfe
Page to the Popes Nuncio <paren> by which i might <em> have been </em>
since I have thought on it Either a Cardinall , or a Bardache ;
</paren> then at Parris resident ; PEPYS,28.010.185

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
in order to theese persuasions , my Mother agrees , PEPYS,28.010.186

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
apointes the day and Howr , when Exactly Came 2 Coashes on of Madame
Trouson Aforesaid , and the other of Mr $Duplecy PEPYS,28.010.187

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and Madam Trouson in hers caries Mother and sister a way as sweefte as
litening For Feare of my Fathers interest and Furies , PEPYS,28.010.188

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and putts them both into the Nouvelle Catholique of Weemen ,
PEPYS,28.010.189

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I in Mr Duplecys convaid to that of Garsons , PEPYS,28.010.190

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
at last my Deare sister being Extreame Hansome was deluded into the
Nuneries of the Urselines <paren> all this about her 12 or 13 yeare of
age </paren> where shee was received with Gladness , thinking to have
her there sure Enough it being the stricktest Nunerys in all Parris ,
PEPYS,28.010.191

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but shee was not there longe I meane not 12 days Eare my Father by some
stratageme or other I know not well How , gott her out , and uss all ,
hee haveing bine allmost distracted about it <paren> Poore Deare man
</paren> PEPYS,28.010.192

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but in Fine hee gott uss all For England againe , where after some time
wee had the Honour to be related to you by my Dear sisters match ,
which was of Extreame Content to my Father , that his deare child had
an other Ferme Protestant Protector , and Guide . PEPYS,28.010.193

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Truly Sir I beleeve <paren> that could I remember or that of my mother
whoe by Her Absence From my house at this present , For health sake I
can have noe accompt of </paren> that never man For Religion in thees
later ages hath sufered what my Father hath . PEPYS,28.010.194

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and now sir I doe declare From my very soule , and am Extreamely well
satisfied that you kept my Dear sister in the true protestant Religion
till her death . PEPYS,28.010.195

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:41
LETTER:PEPYS_010:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am your Honour 's most obedient humble Servant . $Balthasar Michel
PEPYS,28.010.196

<Q_PEP_A_1674_FN_JPEPYSJR> <L_PEPYS_011> <A_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1641> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_29>

{ED:22._JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March : 12 : 1673 {ED:/4} . PEPYS,29.011.197

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Honored Sir I have received yours of the Instant . PEPYS,29.011.198

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I assure You I sent the Canary by York last weeke , PEPYS,29.011.199

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and my Boy went with the Porter PEPYS,29.011.200

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and see it delivered at the Inn ; PEPYS,29.011.201

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope the Carrier will not abuse You , PEPYS,29.011.202

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was choice wine . PEPYS,29.011.203

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall remember some Clarett next weeke , PEPYS,29.011.204

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I proferd for a Joale of Sturgeon , PEPYS,29.011.205

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but when the kegg was opened , it was not sweet ; PEPYS,29.011.206

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If any good can bee gott for mony my Sister shall have some next weeke
, PEPYS,29.011.207

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or if shee will have some at a Venture , I will send her the best can
bee gott . PEPYS,29.011.208

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As for the mony , pray draw a bill on mee for two hundred and fifty
pounds , PEPYS,29.011.209

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will pay it here at sight , PEPYS,29.011.210

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but pray bee sure that it be transmitted to You by good hands .
PEPYS,29.011.211

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I can , I will send you an account of what I have disbursed for You
and Bray by Saturday 's post , PEPYS,29.011.212

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but pray doe not pay any mony to him , till I have sent You the bonds ,
which hee is to signe to secure mee , and my Cosen Pepys ,
PEPYS,29.011.213

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
wee have enterd into a thousand pound bond to secure my Ant Wight from
any other Relations , Debts , &c . PEPYS,29.011.214

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Pray , Remember , that I have taken a bond of Bray in your Name , that
hee shall secure one third part of what hee shall receive for the Use
of his wifes 2 Children , PEPYS,29.011.215

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is reason hee should bee held to it . PEPYS,29.011.216

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The Articles of Peace are too bigg to send in a Letter :
PEPYS,29.011.217

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall remember a Dogg for my Brother . PEPYS,29.011.218

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My brother some time since desired mee to returne his thanks for my
Sister 's kind token , PEPYS,29.011.219

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and promised hee would write himselfe to her ; PEPYS,29.011.220

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but busines hath prevented him PEPYS,29.011.221

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I thought I had given you an account of it . PEPYS,29.011.222

<P_30>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The remainder of monyes which shall bee in my hands after I have sent
my account shall bee returned by your first order . PEPYS,30.011.223

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My humble duty to your selfe , kinde respects to Brother Sister &c
PEPYS,30.011.224

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am Sir Your Obedient Son J. Pepys PEPYS,30.011.225

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:33
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:73
LETTER:PEPYS_011:E3:1674:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For Mr John Pepys at Ellington neer Huntington These with care
PEPYS,30.011.226

<Q_PEP_C_1674_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_012> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_31>

{ED:24._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:33
LETTER:PEPYS_012:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
D {ED:erby} H {ED:ouse} PEPYS,31.012.227

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:33
LETTER:PEPYS_012:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
September {ED:16} 74 PEPYS,31.012.228

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:33
LETTER:PEPYS_012:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother Beleaveing that it may not only be usefull in some sort but
alsoe of some Reputation to the Brotherhood of Trinity Howse that some
3 or 4 of the ancientest and ablest members thereof <paren> I meane
besides those that are of the Navy Office </paren> should be put into
the Commission of Oyer and Terminer for the Admiralty which will
shortly be Issued , Pray some time this day send me a perfect List of
all the present Elder Bretheren with a marke on those whom you conceave
may be the fittest to be incerted the length of whose experience may be
best able to enlighten the Court in any matters relateing to the
Customs of the Sea , To which there $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} some
necessary references to be made at the Sessions upon some points which
I know $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} handled PEPYS,31.012.229

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:33
LETTER:PEPYS_012:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am Your affectionate Brother S P_NPR PEPYS,31.012.230

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:41
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:33
LETTER:PEPYS_012:E3:1674:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr John Pepys PEPYS,31.012.231

<Q_PEP_C_1675_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_013> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_32>

{ED:26._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby-House PEPYS,32.013.232

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
January 11th 1674 {ED:/5} PEPYS,32.013.233

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have been prevented by business in giving you my
thanks so soon as I should have done for your great care and trouble in
the business of putting the money for Tangier on Board the Dragon , and
procuring me Sir Roger Strickland 's Receiptes in due forme for the
same : the Copies whereof you give me in your Letter of the 5th instant
, PEPYS,32.013.234

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but the Originals by Mr Gibson 's kinsman are not yet come to my hand :
PEPYS,32.013.235

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But I suppose he may have deliver'd them to Will. Hewer , who is not at
present in the way to informe me . PEPYS,32.013.236

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What your Disbursements are on this , or have been on any other
occasion for me , pray forget not to give him a Particular of , for all
; PEPYS,32.013.237

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
besides I must remaine your Debtor and Your truely affectionate Brother
to serve you . SP_NPR PEPYS,32.013.238

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_013:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr St Michel PEPYS,32.013.239

<Q_PEP_C_1675_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_014> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_33>

{ED:28._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_014:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
24 June {ED:1675} past 12 at night PEPYS,33.014.240

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_014:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty It being midnight I shall not say more then to desire you
to find some meanes of informing as soone as may be every Ship and
Vessell of his Majesty 's now in the Downes , that his Majesty purposes
to Imbarke upon his Yachts for Portsmouth on Satturday morning next at
Gravesend , Desireing them to putt themselves into a condition of
Sayleing soe as to be ready to attend his Majesty thither at his
passing through the Downes , for which they shall have his Majesty 's
particular Orders this Serveing only to prevent their Surprise and his
Majesty 's finding them unready , PEPYS,33.014.241

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_014:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
pray therefore see that this notice be as timelyly given them as you
can . Which is all at present from Your very affectionate Brother to
Serve you SP_NPR . PEPYS,33.014.242

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_014:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Mitchell at Deale PEPYS,33.014.243

<Q_PEP_C_1675_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_015> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_33>

{ED:29._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby House PEPYS,33.015.244

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
6th July 1675 PEPYS,33.015.245

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty This comes only to thanke you for your Letter of the 29th
June , which I mett with at my returne home from Portsmouth last night
. PEPYS,33.015.246

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
You did very well in attending his Majesty and the Duke , and makeing
them the little Present of the Lambe and Fish you mention , the King
haveing neede enough of it <paren> I beleive </paren> before he gott on
Shore at the Isle of Wight . PEPYS,33.015.247

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray take Care for the imediate conveying of the inclosed Letters to
the Ships in the Downes , Which is all at present from Your very
affectionate Brother to Serve you SP_NPR . PEPYS,33.015.248

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_015:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr St Mitchell at Deale PEPYS,33.015.249

<Q_PEP_C_1675_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_016> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_35>

{ED:31._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
29th August 1675 PEPYS,35.016.250

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have received yours of the 15th in answer to mine of
the 13th instant touching the Business of Lodge and Bowles , by which
and what I have met with since from other hands , I find much more
dissatisfaction in the Matter , than I conceiv'd , from your first
representation of it , though even that gave mee enough :
PEPYS,35.016.251

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For instead of its being a case of the common sort , I mean , that of
Debtor and Creditor , <paren> according to which apprehension of it ,
the whole stile of my said answer of the 13th runs </paren> I find it
to be a business much less becoming you to be an Interposer in , as
being grounded upon a private squabble between those two persons ,
wherein whatever you tell me in yours of the 15th of Lodge 's ill usage
of Bowles his misbehaviour towards him by ill Language , threats and
personal assaults , besides an action first entred by him against Lodge
which is still depending . One part of which your selfe confess , I
mean , his ill language , which of it selfe is enough to make it very
unfit for you to become his or any man 's Advocate in :
PEPYS,35.016.252

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For $'t $is {TEXT:'tis} not to Lodge alone , but to all the World that
you administer matter for the lessening you in your authority <paren>
which seems the great thing that touches you </paren> while you shall
pervert that Authority of yours to uses it was never given you for .
PEPYS,35.016.253

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
If Bowles had decently by Petition resorted to My Lords with his
Complaint of being without their leave arrested , and thereby
interrupted in the execution of his Duty to the King , or shall still ,
I do n't doubt but <paren> his relation to the King 's Service first
appearing </paren> My Lords would in right to His Majesty , and not in
complement to him call Mr Lodge to an account for the indignity done
the King therein ; PEPYS,35.016.254

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if a Petition so prepar'd had been handed to My Lords from you as
the Petitioner 's next Superiour Officer and no more , your concernment
therein soe far might have been well enough admitted . PEPYS,35.016.255

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But for you to imbark your selfe in the merits of the quarrel , mixing
prejudices of your owne in the matter , and this in favour of One who
whilst he pleads the King 's Service for his not being arrestable , can
find leisure from it to attend a Suite against the said Person by whom
he would not be sued , is a piece of presumption , PEPYS,35.016.256

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and can by no means excuse you ; and the less by how much I may have
any reason of thinking it grounded upon any relyance you may have of my
supporting you in it , which you know how often I have advised you to
avoid any <P_36> thoughts of , as being , besides the injustice of it ,
too conscious of frailties of my owne and the care due to my selfe
under them , to take upon me the answering , and therefore much less
the patronizing the faults or misbehaviours of others , especially
where <paren> as in your Case </paren> the nearness of relation
suffices to make me a partaker in the blame , though never so much a
stranger to the guilt or matter of it , as you know to how much trouble
to me it did in the late case of the Privateer . PEPYS,36.016.257

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In a word therefore I do conjure you whatever present reflection you
think it may have upon you to let fall whatever concernments you shall
have in this quarrel , and for the time to come reckon it the best
means of preserving your Authority to restrain the use of it , to
Causes honourable , and such as properly come within your Cognizance ,
and no other ; assuring you , that as in general I shall never interest
my selfe in your defence while you do otherwise , so I know not what
you can expect of Friendship from me in the present Case , more than
the perswading of Mr Lodge to withdraw his Action upon condition of
Bowles {ED:'} s doing the like with mutual promises of peace on both
sides . All which I pray you to take in good part from me , as
proceeding from the truth of the love I bear you , and which shall
never suffer you to be injur'd by any man , where any thing within my
power can right you . PEPYS,36.016.258

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
So I remain Your truely affectionate Brother and Servant SP_NPR
PEPYS,36.016.259

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:42
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_016:E3:1675:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Balthazar St Michel at Deale PEPYS,36.016.260

<Q_PEP_A_1675_FN_PJACKSON> <L_PEPYS_017> <A_PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_DAUGHTER> <A-DOB_1640> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_36>

{ED:32._PAULINA_JACKSON_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

{ED:Ellington}

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
September 8 1675 PEPYS,36.017.261

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Honoured Sir your boyes thinkes your next letter a long time acoming
that thay may know when you will bee pleased to Set your time of coming
. PEPYS,36.017.262

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir yesterday Mr Jackson wated upon Sir John , PEPYS,36.017.263

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and found him most Extriordnary Ready to asist him in his busnes .
PEPYS,36.017.264

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hee dose desire both your Self and my husband , if you have any
ocashan for advice mak use of him PEPYS,36.017.265

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it shall cost you nothing PEPYS,36.017.266

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hee Read over our leas PEPYS,36.017.267

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and informd him selfe what it hath bine let for PEPYS,36.017.268

<P_37>

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he doth protest the Coledg hath mad the leas soe stricket that hee
is confident , when takes are to be payd thare is not twelfe pence to
be gote out of it . PEPYS,37.017.269

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he hath promised to meet these Jentellmen , when thay set thare
$time-and-place PEPYS,37.017.270

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$and {TEXT:time-and-place-and} hee dose protest he will get them to
give as much as posible he cane PEPYS,37.017.271

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but he sese hee $can $not {TEXT:cannot} prosed with them tell hee hath
a Sight of the leas that was last mad by the Coledg to Mr Jackson -
which my Brother Pepys hath . which I desire hee will be pleased to
Send downe as Spedily as posible hee can PEPYS,37.017.272

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for wee expect thare Sending a mesenger to Set the place of meeting
every day . PEPYS,37.017.273

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pray Sir let my Brother not at tall Distrust our Justnes in
Repaying what wee Stand bound to him for , PEPYS,37.017.274

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
upon my life what ever nesisity I am dreven to I will sell all that
ever I have before I will disobleag Shuch a Reall freand as hee is , or
let him lose any part what I am in deated to him , PEPYS,37.017.275

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but upon your Returne you shall ether-1 have the leas or the mony in
your Costitie PEPYS,37.017.276

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if that had bine bought my boye you shuld not have stad long without
your mony PEPYS,37.017.277

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My most humble duty to your self PEPYS,37.017.278

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Respects and Service to my Brothers PEPYS,37.017.279

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:DAUGHTER:1640:35
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:74
LETTER:PEPYS_017:E3:1675:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Craveing your blesing I rest Sir Your Most obedint daughter Paulina
Jackson PEPYS,37.017.280

<Q_PEP_A_1676_FN_JPEPYSSR> <L_PEPYS_018> <A_JOHN_PEPYS_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1601> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_38>

{ED:34._JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

{ED:Ellington}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
February 3th 1675/6 PEPYS,38.018.281

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dear Sonn I have Receved a bill from Mr Mason PEPYS,38.018.282

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but hee Settes downe Severall thinges in it that Mr Jackson and I know
wee lade downe mony our Selves for PEPYS,38.018.283

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
tharefor I desire you will not paye him any mony upon our acount tell I
Come to discos with him at his Retorne PEPYS,38.018.284

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you have payd him any mony upon my acount pray send me word
PEPYS,38.018.285

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
all due love and Respects with my prayers to god to bles you
PEPYS,38.018.286

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I rest Your most afeckshinat father John Pepys PEPYS,38.018.287

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_018:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For the Wright Worshipfull John Pepys Esquire in the Navy office in
Mark lane Present London PEPYS,38.018.288

<Q_PEP_C_1676_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_019> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_38>

{ED:36._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby-House PEPYS,38.019.289

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
ultimo February 1675/6 PEPYS,38.019.290

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have received your Letter of yesterday 's date
PEPYS,38.019.291

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am very well satisfied with the reason of your desire of coming up
to Towne ; So <P_39> that as soon as you have the like from the
Principall Officers of the Navy <paren> which on this occation and at
this time I presume they will not deny you </paren> you are at liberty
to begin your Journey ; hoping that you are on your part ready in every
respect to discharge yourselfe as you ought to doe in all you have been
concerned in , though I have reason very much to doubt it of some
others , whose failure I understand to have been the occation of this
General Summons . PEPYS,39.019.292

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your truely affectionate Brother and Servant SP_NPR
PEPYS,39.019.293

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_019:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr St Michel at Deal PEPYS,39.019.294

<Q_PEP_A_1676_FN_JPEPYSJR> <L_PEPYS_020> <A_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1641> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_39>

{ED:37._JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

{ED:Trinity_House}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
LETTER:PEPYS_020:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
4. April {ED:16} 76 PEPYS,39.020.295

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
LETTER:PEPYS_020:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir : If you have discoursed with Sir William Turner ; concerning the
mony in the Bankers hands , the Deputy Master of Trinity house desires
to have a Court held either on Thursday next , or some time the next
weeke , according as you shall appoint . PEPYS,39.020.296

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
LETTER:PEPYS_020:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If you please , I will wait on you to morrow morning for what you shall
please to send into the Country . PEPYS,39.020.297

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
LETTER:PEPYS_020:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am Your most humble Servant JP_NPR PEPYS,39.020.298

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
LETTER:PEPYS_020:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sam Pepys PEPYS,39.020.299

<Q_PEP_C_1676_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_021> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_40>

{ED:39._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July 1676 PEPYS,40.021.300

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , Yours of the 7th came to me this afternoone after the
little I had wrote to you this morning touching my Godson ,
PEPYS,40.021.301

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and very glad I am , and much content it gives me that you have managed
your trust so , as to be able to give Mr Evelyn the answer which you
have sent him , as relying upon it , that it is a true one ; and taking
the liberty only of noting to you , that it had been enough in the
close of your Letter to have undertaken against any man 's giving a
more just , instead of engaging that none should give so just an
Account as your selfe : Which amounts to noe less than your arraigning
them all of being unjust . PEPYS,40.021.302

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
This I observe to you only for future caution ; PEPYS,40.021.303

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as to the present business shall add noe more than that I will
speak to Mr Evelyn about it , as soon as I see him , and would have you
, in case you have not an answer from him very suddenly , to remind him
very civilly by another from yourselfe of your desire of knowing what
part of the +L you are to reckon your selfe to have received , taking
occation therewith to put him in mind of the Journey you lately took ,
and chargeable stay you made here upon no other score than the tendring
to him and soliciting him to receive and examine your Accounts and
Vouchers for all your Receipts and Payments from the beginning of this
Action , PEPYS,40.021.304

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but could not obtaine it . PEPYS,40.021.305

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
One thing more there is indeed which I would mention to you , namely ,
That noe longer since than on Saturday last My Lord Treasurer being
ledd to take notice to His Majesty , in my hearing , of the business of
the Sick and Wounded upon occation of some Petitions presented the King
from some of the Districts for reliefe under their want of Payment ,
his Lordship was pleas'd among other grounds of dissatisfaction , which
he thought fit to take notice of , in relation to the management of
that matter , to observe to His Majesty that the general Debt of the
Sick and Wounded , which before the last +L supply'd towards it , was
computed but at +L has been represented to him <paren> since and over
and above the Payment of that +L </paren> to be encreased to +L ; and
that since his Lordship 's having supply'd them with +L more it is
reported to him to amount to +L . PEPYS,40.021.306

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The use which I would make of this is my desiring you to consider
whether <P_41> this uncertain Calculation of the General Debt has
arisen in any degree from any uncertaine reports thereof in what
relates to your province , and to give me the satisfaction of knowing
whether it has so , or no . Which is all at present from Your very
affectionate Brother and Servant SP_NPR PEPYS,41.021.307

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_021:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr St Michel at Deale PEPYS,41.021.308

<Q_PEP_A_1676_FN_JPEPYSSR> <L_PEPYS_022> <A_JOHN_PEPYS_SR>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FATHER> <A-DOB_1601> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_SON> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_41>

{ED:40._JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
July the 18 1676 PEPYS,41.022.309

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Dear Sonne tell I have Receved my rent from my tennant at Storkloe
which hath bine due ever sence lady day I can not Set my time to Come
to See you . PEPYS,41.022.310

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
your brother and Sister is troubled that you are not more puncktuall in
your advis . PEPYS,41.022.311

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now thare is to Jentellmen a bought it PEPYS,41.022.312

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and it is thought hath bid as much to the full as it Can posible be
worth . PEPYS,41.022.313

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it Can not be thought that any man will give 12 years birches for a
thing that thare is bot 14 years in all to Com in it tell it is renewed
agane . PEPYS,41.022.314

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but wee Stood for +L and thay to Renew . PEPYS,41.022.315

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and not one foote of our one land belonging to it . PEPYS,41.022.316

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thay are in a great Strate what to doe leste thay are to displeas you .
PEPYS,41.022.317

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and how to Stoope deates thay $can $not {TEXT:Cannot} tell .
PEPYS,41.022.318

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the Colledg rent is 4 Score and +L thes year . PEPYS,41.022.319

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
mr Crow Calls in his +L PEPYS,41.022.320

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or Requires new Security now mr Rolte is dead . PEPYS,41.022.321

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
wool and $the hay thay know not what to doe with them .
PEPYS,41.022.322

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thare is noe rent for them . PEPYS,41.022.323

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hee went with gelding to fotheringay fare to sell <em> . </em>
PEPYS,41.022.324

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
not one body bad mony for him <em> . PEPYS,41.022.325

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
He was </em> fane to bring him back agane . PEPYS,41.022.326

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
now the Coledg expect thar rent , PEPYS,41.022.327

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and thay have not pound toward it PEPYS,41.022.328

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor know not what to doe . PEPYS,41.022.329

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
truly it is a greef to mee to see thare great trouble .
PEPYS,41.022.330

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I give you heartie thankes for the bottel of Sperites you Sent .
PEPYS,41.022.331

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
with that I receved from the Carriers a boxe of sweetmeets wade ll.
directed to me but noe letter . PEPYS,41.022.332

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if you know hoe sent it pray send word PEPYS,41.022.333

<P_42>

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I will give them thankes . PEPYS,42.022.334

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my kind love with all due Service from brother and Sister
PEPYS,42.022.335

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
beseching the lord to bles and keep you I rest your most afectshinat
father John Pepys PEPYS,42.022.336

AUTHOR:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:75
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:SON:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_022:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For the Wright Worshipfull John Pepys Esquire in the Navy Office in
Mark lane London PEPYS,42.022.337

<Q_PEP_A_1676_FN_PJACKSON> <L_PEPYS_023> <A_PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER> <A-DOB_1640> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_42>

{ED:42._PAULINA_JACKSON_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

{ED:Ellington,}

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
October the 3 1676 PEPYS,42.023.338

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Honered Sir I hope before this Comes to your hand , My Husband will be
Com Safe to towne , to wate one you , to Crafe your asistance , in thes
following Conseirnes . PEPYS,42.023.339

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in the first place to Relate what discorse hath bine about Bartones
busnes PEPYS,42.023.340

<P_43>

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
in the next place how unhansom Mr Merrett lettes Brampton hous fall out
of Repares PEPYS,43.023.341

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then , to have Counsell about old thomas Hensones acount and
whether , wee Can bring the towne to Make a More Exact tarer of thare
Estates and how an Impropriater aught to be lade to taxes and leives
and if it be posible to Mak freands to bee Eased in the Melisha
PEPYS,43.023.342

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir I doe most Humbly begg your asistance and Countinance in these
Severall acashan , PEPYS,43.023.343

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for with out it I know not how to live in the parsonage
PEPYS,43.023.344

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the towne are Soe unworthy PEPYS,43.023.345

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I shall not trouble you with more att present PEPYS,43.023.346

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but am Sir Your Sister and Servant to comemand Paulina Jackson
PEPYS,43.023.347

AUTHOR:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:36
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_023:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hee must bee shure to doe what hee Cane to gett the grant for the Sett
in the Church . PEPYS,43.023.348

<Q_PEP_C_1676_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_024> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_43>

{ED:43._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
D {ED:erby} H {ED:ouse} PEPYS,43.024.349

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
11 October 1676 PEPYS,43.024.350

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother , I have received your Letter this morning , PEPYS,43.024.351

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} see upon what inducements my Brethren
should be of opinion to put out these words ; <paren> And without any
encrease of Duty to be expected for the same . </paren> Since they are
the only Words that doe our Corporation most Honour and Right , and are
imply'd in the other parts of the Paper , where we say we do it at our
own Cost for the publick benefit of Navigation : Which would not be
true , if we intended that Navigation should be taxed towards it ;
besides that we pretend what we have done to be only the amendment of
an old Light , for which a Duty is already settled , and not the
erecting of a new one that should give any ground to the laying a new .
PEPYS,43.024.352

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But that which sways most of all with me , is that we have under all
our hands <paren> which I am sorry should be so soon forgott </paren>
declar'd in an Answer to Sir John Clayton 's Petition , that what we
are doing at Lestoffe , we do without any expectation of profit ;
PEPYS,43.024.353

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and which is yet more , the Act of Parliament that impowers us to erect
Lights , expresly excludes us from acting any thing therein <P_44>
otherwise than at our owne Charge both-3 in the building and
maintaining of our Sea-marks : So that if we $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
justify our selves in our expectation of any profits from it , and have
already declared that we would look for none ; Why should we deny
ourselves the credit and reputation justly due to us by omitting to
publish it to the World , that what we doe is for publick good , at our
private cost ; it being alsoe the only advantage we have over Sir John
Clayton in his present pretensions , and every private man that do's as
he do's under pretence only of benefit to the Publick , but in reality
at the Publick 's Charge . PEPYS,44.024.354

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Nor am I of opinion that our publishing these words will at all hinder
us from any future favour we may hope for from His Majesty ; but rather
further us therein more than if these Words were left out ; they
shewing both our conforming our selves to the Law , and willingness to
serve the Publick as far as we are able ; the want whereof in our
Predecessors is that <paren> I doubt </paren> which first ledd the
Crowne to the granting Patents to private Men for erecting of those
Lights ; which had our Corporation done at their owne Charge it is not
to be thought but the consideration of its being done out of the Poor
's Money would some time or other have prevail'd with the Crowne to
have relieved the Poor , by granting them some allowance for it ,
rather than doe what it has done at the importunity , and for the
gratifying of private persons , and perhaps prevented many of those
attempts , which have been made <paren> and some with success </paren>
by such private persons , of obtaining Patents for the erecting useful
Lights at the Publick 's Charge , I mean , if our Corporation had
timelily apply'd themselves to the providing of those Lights ; which
<paren> through our failure </paren> have been done by private men and
found as useful as those which the Trinity-House has been the Founders
of . Upon which considerations I am in my particular judgment fully of
opinion , that it should be published to the World that we have not
presum'd or design'd what we have now done with any purpose of an
increase of charge to Navigation ; PEPYS,44.024.355

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I submitt it to Sir Thomas Allyn and the rest of my Brethren , to
whom I would have you instantly communicate these my thoughts
PEPYS,44.024.356

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shall stay for their answer <paren> which pray send me by noon
</paren> before I proceed to the offering our Papers to the Press .
PEPYS,44.024.357

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your Loving Brother SP_NPR PEPYS,44.024.358

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_024:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr John Pepys PEPYS,44.024.359

<Q_PEP_A_1676_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_025> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_JR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_1641>

<P_45>

{ED:44._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_JUNIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Derby House PEPYS,45.025.360

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
25th October 1676 PEPYS,45.025.361

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Brother That the Labour taken by my selfe and the rest of my Brethren
yesterday at Deptford may not be lost , nor the use of it delayed ,
pray see that some Orders be drawen up pursuant to the Severall points
then Concluded on , that soe I may call a Court for the confirming it ,
and putting them all in a way of execution PEPYS,45.025.362

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and pray lett some thoughts be spent in the drawing of them up , that
they may be effectual , PEPYS,45.025.363

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and forgett not to invite the Church Wardens and Overseers of Deptford
to come to Us when our next meeting is , which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
in a morning . PEPYS,45.025.364

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I remaine Your very affectionate Brother S Pepys PEPYS,45.025.365

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:43
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_JR:MALE:BROTHER:1641:35
LETTER:PEPYS_025:E3:1676:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
For John Pepys Esquire at the Navy Office These PEPYS,45.025.366

<Q_PEP_C_1676_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_026> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_48>

{ED:48._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
1st December {ED:16} 76 PEPYS,48.026.367

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty . I have received your letter of the 26th November in
answear to mine of the 23 and 24th of the same , PEPYS,48.026.368

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and was in very good Earnst when I told you that I meant it not in
respect to any particular Comander when I gave you that advice but
onely of a generall apprehension which I have of late had Some Seeming
grounds to entertaine of the Liberty taken by Comanders in the Downes
of resorting to and Lying on Shoare to the neglect of his Majesty 's
<P_49> Service on float PEPYS,49.026.369

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am not les glad to find by you the little cause there is of any
Suspitions of that kind , then I should be Sorry to understand the
contrary PEPYS,49.026.370

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and missed of being informed therein from your selfe . In which relying
upon your care and faithfullnes to his Majestie I remaine , Your very
affectionate Brother to serve you PEPYS,49.026.371

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_026:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell at Deale PEPYS,49.026.372

<Q_PEP_C_1676_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_027> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_49>

{ED:49._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_027:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
13th December {ED:16} 76 PEPYS,49.027.373

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_027:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty .- One particular hath lately come to my knowledge
relateing to the matter I lately wrott to you about , concerning
Captaine 's spending time on shore at Deale , while they should be
attending to his Majesty 's Service on board ; Namely That in my
Enquiry after the reason why Captain Temple in the Dartmouth did not
with his Fleet to Virginia gett out of the Downes the Same day when the
Merchant Ships bound to the Streights did , <paren> by which had the
winds changed noe man knowes the Consequence it might have been to his
Majesty </paren> I understand that though Captain Temple excuses it by
another reason , Namely that being himself under Saile the Merchant men
could not gett all under saile before night , soe that he was forced to
anchor againe , some Masters of the Merchant men have given it out by
way of Complaint , that it arose from his not being to be gott timelily
from the shore . The truth of which being very desirous to know , pray
lett me comitt it to you to make some Enquiry in , PEPYS,49.027.374

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_027:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if you can learn any thing therein lett me understand it .
PEPYS,49.027.375

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_027:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The day upon which the Streight 's Shipps sailed was the 2d instant
when by very good Authority <paren> Sir Richard Haddock I mean </paren>
I have understood they were gott clear of the Foreland by 2 of the
Clock in the afternoone . Which is all at present from , Your very
affectionate Brother and Servant SP_NPR . PEPYS,49.027.376

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:43
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_027:E3:1676:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell at Deale PEPYS,49.027.377

<Q_PEP_C_1677_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_028> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_50>

{ED:51._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby House PEPYS,50.028.378

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
22th January 1676/7 PEPYS,50.028.379

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have received your Letter of the 19th of January
PEPYS,50.028.380

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and thank you for your Care of the Packetts therein mentioned .
PEPYS,50.028.381

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As to the Character you give of Captain Carverth it is noe more then
what I verily beleive you think just , and is soe , PEPYS,50.028.382

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but pray tell me whether or noe you doe not think the great ground of
his Complaint for want of Men to arise not soe much from the lowness of
his Complement <paren> which is the same which was allotted by the
Officers of the Navy and accepted of by him for the carrying her to the
furthermost part of the Baltick </paren> but from the weakness of that
Number by the Sickness that is among them , which he seemed to mention
to me in a late Letter , PEPYS,50.028.383

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if that be the reason , it seems not to be the adding of more Men
that he wants , but the changing of those he hath for better ;
PEPYS,50.028.384

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
however I doe acknowledge that the Number he hath is less then her
Complement need to be but yet is more then his Majesty will need to
have for the manning of the Spragg , in case he expects to return with
her to his old Station at Guernsey and Jersey , which I presume his
Majesty and my Lords will rather incline to have done , then employ a
more chargeable Shipp there , then is necessary for that Service , and
then hath hitherto been allow'd for it wherein at Captain Carverth 's
return pray advise with him , PEPYS,50.028.385

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and lett me know his answer . PEPYS,50.028.386

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your very affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR
PEPYS,50.028.387

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_028:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell at Deale . PEPYS,50.028.388

<Q_PEP_C_1677_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_029> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_50>

{ED:52._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
23th January {ED:16} 76/7 PEPYS,50.029.389

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty This comes only to take notice of , and to give you
thankes for the great Care which I have understood <paren> though not
from your Selfe </paren> <P_51> you tooke in the over takeing of the
Adventure , and delivering his Majesty 's Orders to her Comander timely
enough to bring her backe to the Downes ; Though I am sory it was
accompanied with soe much paine to you . PEPYS,51.029.390

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But dilligence will some time or other bring it's owne reward ,
PEPYS,51.029.391

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I would not have you dispare but it will doe soe to you
PEPYS,51.029.392

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your very affectionate Brother and Servant S. P_NPR .
PEPYS,51.029.393

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:44
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_029:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell PEPYS,51.029.394

<Q_PEP_A_1677_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_030> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_51>

{ED:54._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Derby House . PEPYS,51.030.395

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
June 1677 . PEPYS,51.030.396

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Honoured Sir I doe acknowledge my selfe to be greatly in arreare to you
for the Severall Letters I have received from your selfe and my Sister
, which <P_52> truly Sir doth not arise from any defect in my duty to
you , or unkindnesse to her , but from the misfortune I lye under of
not being able to write with my owne Eyes , without a great deale of
paine and the muchnesse of my businesse preventing my doeing it by
other hands ; PEPYS,52.030.397

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but Sir for the fuiture I will take Care that either from my selfe , or
from one of my Clerkes my Sister shall heare weekely from me , and have
answer to any thing , that either from her selfe , or by your Command I
shall have occasion of writeing to you . PEPYS,52.030.398

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And now to the great businesse which you propose touching Brampton
Estate , PEPYS,52.030.399

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I will as I said doe any thing that is in my power for the bringing
about that which you desire on behalfe of my little Nephews ,
PEPYS,52.030.400

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor did I faile to speake to Sir John Bernard twice about it , when hee
was in Towne , with whom upon perusall of your paper of particulars I
am fully Satisfied that the Payments Wee have made doe arise very farr
towards , if not exceede the full value of the Estate my Unckle left ,
PEPYS,52.030.401

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But our misfortune is , that it hath not been in your memory or mine to
gett that Stated and acknowledged under two of the hands to whom by our
agreement at first with my Unckle Thomas the stateing of the matter was
referred . PEPYS,52.030.402

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Not but that it is true , I doe firmely beleive , that Wee may have
remedy in Chancery in it , PEPYS,52.030.403

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it is my opinion , that it $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} much better to
gett that done while it pleaseth God that you and I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} liveing , then to leave it to be hereafter disputed by
the Children who $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} lesse able to mannage it for
themselves then wee , and may be lesse able to beare the Charge of it .
PEPYS,52.030.404

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this I hold the more necessary alsoe from the consideration of my
Cozen Thomas declineing to come to any composition with Us at least as
Sir John Bernard tells me , who as I remember did before his goeing to
the Bath acquaint me that hee had offered him +L for his Satisfaction
in it , soe as it doth appeare that he doth putt waite upon the hopes
hee has that this little Estate will fall to him and his family in case
I die without Children , as in all probability <P_53> I shall ; and soe
will have a just right to expect the Estate , unlesse Wee doe while Wee
are alive bring to a plaine understanding and determination the State
of Our case in relation to this Estate , and thereby prevent both an
Errour on our side in leaveing to the Children a provision that $will
$be {TEXT:wilbe} disputable , and on theirs , the misleadeing them to a
Chargeable Suite at Law in expectation of recovering from the Children
what perhapes had they known the truth of the Case , they would not
have looked after . Wherefore truely Sir if you please , I doe thinke
the best that Wee can doe in this matter is , as soone as Wee can , to
have the Will looked over . As alsoe the Agreement betweene my Unckle
Thomas and Us , together with the true value not only of the yearely
Revenue , but of the monies , and Stocke that my Unckle left Us , and
alsoe of Our Payments both-15 in Legasyes and annuall Pentions , and
the maintenance my Unckle expresly allowed to you out of it for your
life , and that being done , to have the opinion of some good Lawyers
in it , and if then upon the same being made knowne to my Cozen Thomas
Pepys , he shall not thinke fitt to submitt to it to take such course
for the haveing Our right Settled in our life times , that Wee may know
what Wee have upon this Estate to leave the Children , and see the same
done soe legally , as that they may have noe $controversy about it when
Wee are gone , nor wee mislead to thinke of a Provision left them out
of this Estate , when God knowes it may otherwise amount to nothing to
them . PEPYS,53.030.405

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this Sir is what I have to offer you upon this Subject praying you
to consider it , PEPYS,53.030.406

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if you find reason of differing from me , in any thing that I have
said , be pleased to tell it me , PEPYS,53.030.407

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I shall most readily submitt to that which you shall judge the best
. PEPYS,53.030.408

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Very glad I am that my Sister hath disposed as shee tells me of her
troublesome $parsonage , PEPYS,53.030.409

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray God blesse her and hers in what she doth therein ,
PEPYS,53.030.410

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shall desire to know whether Brampton house $will $be {TEXT:wilbe}
free for you at the time of her leaveing of the house shee is now in ,
or whether else she purposeth to remove , that it may be to your
content , PEPYS,53.030.411

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and much it would be alsoe to my Satisfaction to know the truth of her
condition and the condition of her Family , which shee in her Letter
tells me I shall have when shee comes to remove . PEPYS,53.030.412

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope you have had some Wine lately , PEPYS,53.030.413

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desire that before your Stocke be out , you would give me notice of
it , that I may provide more for you , and what ever else either your
health or pleasure shall require from hence . PEPYS,53.030.414

<P_54>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As to my Brother Thomas 's Debt I have heard nothing from the Man , nor
that I remember any thing from my Brother John while hee was alive ,
PEPYS,54.030.415

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but truely Sir if I could have a true accompt of all my Brother Thomas
's just debts , and that I knew what the whole would amount to , and
what <paren> if any thing </paren> there is yet to come in towards the
Satisfying them , I should be inclined to beare with a little Charge to
my selfe for the cleareing them . PEPYS,54.030.416

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
As to what relates to my Brother Johns Accompt I doe hope in a very
little time , soe soone as Will Hewer shall come to Towne againe ,
which $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} at the end of this Weeke , to be able to
finish my lookeing over all his Papers , and see in what condition hee
has left the World , PEPYS,54.030.417

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and shall give you and my Sister a speedy and cleare Accompt of it .
Which with the tenders of my most humble Duty to you and prayer to
Almighty God to preserve you in health , with my true love to my
Brother and Sister Jackson , and Blessing to the Children is all at
present from Your most Dutifull Sonne . S Pepys PEPYS,54.030.418

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_030:E3:1677:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir Lionell Walden did tell mee the other day , that hee has made my
Brother Jackson an Assessor of the Tax in Ellington . PEPYS,54.030.419

<Q_PEP_C_1677_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_031> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_54>

{ED:55._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
D {ED:erby} H {ED:ouse} , PEPYS,54.031.420

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
1 September , 1677 PEPYS,54.031.421

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Honoured Sir I hope e're this come to your hand you will have received
mine of the 28th of the last , with one enclosed from Mr Hollyer , to
which I much long for an answer , PEPYS,54.031.422

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hope to receive it by Monday 's Post , that I may understand the
present condition of your health , with the effects of his advice and
what you shall please to direct me to supply you further with from
hence , and particularly about some wine . PEPYS,54.031.423

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I did also in the same Letter give you an expectation of my full answer
to you in the business of my Sister ; PEPYS,54.031.424

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but because I would leave no stone unturned that may conduce to your
satisfaction and hers in that matter , I have determined upon taking
some advice here more than my owne therein , that I may as much as it
is possible secure myselfe against any imputation of doing any thing
misbecoming an honest man towards my Cosens , and prevent my Sister and
her <P_55> Children 's meeting with any occations of future Disputes ,
by my seeing all grounds of dispute removed , while I am in being ,
that may best see it done . The result of which Council I shall know in
very few dayes , and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} then ripe , to give my
owne opinion upon it , not doubting but if my Sister should bee
prevented in this I shall be able by God Almighty 's Blessing to make
her Children as good a provision another way . PEPYS,55.031.425

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Soe craving your Blessing , and with my kind love to my Brother ,
Sister , and Children I remaine Your ever obedient and Dutiful Son
SP_NPR PEPYS,55.031.426

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_031:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr John Pepys PEPYS,55.031.427

<Q_PEP_C_1677_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_032> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_56>

{ED:57._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
15th September , {ED:16} 77 PEPYS,56.032.428

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
H {ED:onoured} Sir I doe in the enclosed to Sir John Barnard returne
you my answer to your desires about our Brampton Affaire ; which as I
hope it will be satisfactory to you and my Sister , PEPYS,56.032.429

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So I pray God it may have the good effect to the benefit of her
Children which you designe . PEPYS,56.032.430

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
The reason of my saying this noe sooner , and writing now to you no
larger , you will finde in my Letter to him : To which I therefore
refer you : PEPYS,56.032.431

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and begging your Blessing doe present you with my Duty , and my Brother
and Sister with my kind Love and Blessing to their Children ,
PEPYS,56.032.432

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
remaine , Your ever most obedient Son . SP_NPR PEPYS,56.032.433

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:44
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:76
LETTER:PEPYS_032:E3:1677:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mr John Pepys PEPYS,56.032.434

<Q_PEP_C_1678_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_033> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_57>

{ED:59._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby House PEPYS,57.033.435

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
14th January 1677/8 PEPYS,57.033.436

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother I have yours of the 13 Instant , PEPYS,57.033.437

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as Soone as you foresee certainly the departure of the Foresight
and Assistance , or that your Busynesse with those two Shipps is over ,
I shall with the Privity of the Navy Board obteine you the Liberty you
desire , PEPYS,57.033.438

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but pray take not a chargeable Journey but upon occasions that are
truely necessary , nothing being Less welcome to me then to See you in
towne unemployed PEPYS,57.033.439

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I give you many thankes for your Care about takeing acquittances for my
money putt on board the Foresight , though I have not yet received them
. PEPYS,57.033.440

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your truly affectionate Brother and Servant S P_NPR
PEPYS,57.033.441

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell at Deale PEPYS,57.033.442

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Post Script . PEPYS,57.033.443

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Since my writing this I have a letter from Captain Willshaw which much
troubles me he being a man of great worth , and one for whom I have an
extra kindnes , while on the other hand I $can $not {TEXT:canot} be
less concern'd for any thing where you are . PEPYS,57.033.444

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I therefore send you his letter , and a Copie of the answer I have sent
him for you to guide your selfe by , which I leave to your direction to
manage as you see fit , either by takeing , or not takeing notice of it
at all as you shall judge the same may be done without widening the
discontent between you if there be any . PEPYS,57.033.445

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_033:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Send me his letter back againe . PEPYS,57.033.446

<Q_PEP_C_1678_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_034> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_57>

{ED:60._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
17 January 1677 {ED:/8} PEPYS,57.034.447

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother . I have yours of the 16th , PEPYS,57.034.448

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and presumeing still that you will neither <P_58> conceale nor Disguise
the Truth in a matter Soe much importing me as this , wherein I am now
concern'd between Captain Willshaw and you , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
imagine what should lead soe sober a man as he to soe unanswerable a
Degree of Passion and folly as he seemes to have rendred himself guilty
of towards you . PEPYS,58.034.449

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For what you suspect of his being not soe well affected towards me
<paren> though that 's noe new thing for me to meet with from Some
Commanders </paren> ; yet there can be nothing of that in this Case ,
there being not one Commander in the whole Fleet to whome I either
really have , or have endeavoured to shew more reall Respect then
Captain Willshaw . PEPYS,58.034.450

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore I have no other guess to make at the ground of it , then
that the Company wherein you found him , might after your Departure
either-3 in mirth or mischief , enlarge upon your word <paren> Busking
</paren> and impose upon him that groundless and offensive Construction
of your visit and Letter which he in his seemes to put upon it .
PEPYS,58.034.451

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But be it what it will , though I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but approve
of your warme Resentments of such usage , yet would I advise and doe
conjure you to be cutting out noe sattisfaction for your self , but
silently passing it over <paren> at least for the present </paren> ,
leave it to me to see you righted , and in the meane time content
yourself with a View of the enclosed Copy which I send you of my Letter
to him this night . To which when I receive answer , I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} better instructed how to Advise you further .
PEPYS,58.034.452

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your truly affectionate Brother to serve you SP_NPR
PEPYS,58.034.453

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_034:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Michell at Deale PEPYS,58.034.454

<Q_PEP_C_1678_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_035> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_59>

{ED:62._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Derby House , PEPYS,59.035.455

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
26 January , 1677 {ED:/8} PEPYS,59.035.456

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother . I have your Letter of the 24 , PEPYS,59.035.457

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and doe take in very good part your acquiesceing in what I have done
between Captain Willshaw and you , it being what is enough I think for
you to expect on your part , and what became me to say to him on his .
PEPYS,59.035.458

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for the accident by which it is fallen out that my Last Letter to
Captain Willshaw , wherein the whole matter between you was wound up
came not to him , I would advise you to send it back to me ,
PEPYS,59.035.459

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I will take care to send it after him by the Phoenix under a fresh
Cover . PEPYS,59.035.460

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe soone as you shall have mustered the Phoenix , I doe approve of
your comeing up to Towne in order to your fitting yourself for <P_60>
your withdrawing from Deale , you takeing care to have some person in
the way to supply your absence for what Occasions the King 's Service
shall call for you there . PEPYS,60.035.461

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe I remaine Your very affectionate Brother and Servant SP_NPR
PEPYS,60.035.462

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_035:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr Michell at Deale PEPYS,60.035.463

<Q_PEP_C_1678_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_036> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_62>

{ED:64._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
26. September 1678 . PEPYS,62.036.464

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother His Majestie haveing given you leave to make a stepp over to
ffrance to perfect all your busynesse there in order to your being at
Liberty to betake your selfe entirely to the Service whereto you are
now designed by his Majestie at Tangier I am in the 1st place to desire
you to use all the dilligence you can in the dispatch of your affaires
Soe as you may be speedily here to receive your Instructions for that
Service and apply your selfe thereto without delay , the occasion
thereof calling with all speed for you . PEPYS,62.036.465

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next it falling out that Sir John Bernard a very worthy Gentleman , and
my honoured friend , for whom I had Spoake to his Majestie for a yacht
on purpose , is iust now goeing over with his Lady into France for
their healths , Setting out hence to morow soe as to be at Rye on
Saturday I shall desire you to Save the Sending of any other of his
Majesty 's yachts at a time soe full of Service for them all by your
calling in your way towards Diepe at Rye there to expect the comeing of
Sir John Bernard and his Company , who will be imediatly ready to
embarque and give them the best accomodation your yacht can afford and
shewing my Lady all the respect you can for the rendering her voyage to
Diepe as easy to her as may be . PEPYS,62.036.466

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Lastly for the Spareing of another Yacht upon an occasion which his
Majestie had given me his Comand to Send one expresse for , namely the
bringing over our famous Ague-Doctor Sir Robert Taber who will be at
Diepe on Tuesday next <paren> as the same has been undertaken here by
Mr Blaesethwayt , or within a day or two more at furthest </paren> this
serves to recomend to you the execution of his Majesties pleasure in
this particular of takeing in the said Doctor Taber with his Company
and Servants , and bringing him and them along with you at your Returne
into the River of Thames Useing him alsoe on his passage , with all
Curtesy as being a Person for whom his Majestie is pleased to have
particular regard . PEPYS,62.036.467

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But in case the state of your private concernment from Paris <paren>
upon which you goe </paren> shall be soe soone dispatcht as that you
shall be ready to returne sooner , you are not to attend at Diepe in
expectation of the Said Doctor longer then wednesday or thursday next
at furthest , but upon his failure to be at Diepe by that time , to
repaire back for England with what speed {with}_P you can . Leaveing
the inclosed letter from Mr Blaesethwayt in some hand at Diepe , that
may take care to deliver it safely to Sir Robert Taber when he shall
come , leting him know your haveing attended him <P_63> two dayes
beyond the time assigned for his being at Diepe <paren> namely Tuesday
</paren> . and that in case he chooses to attend there for the comeing
of another yacht for him ; he will doe well to give the Earlyest advice
he can to Mr Blaesethwayt of his purpose to stay there in expectation
of it . PEPYS,63.036.468

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe with wishes of a safe , and speedy Voyage to you I remaine Your
very affectionate Brother to serve you S Pepys . PEPYS,63.036.469

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:45
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_036:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr Mitchell PEPYS,63.036.470

<Q_PEP_C_1678_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_037> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER> <R-DOB_1640>

<P_63>

{ED:65._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_PAULINA_JACKSON}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Derby-house , PEPYS,63.037.471

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
5 December , {ED:16} 78 PEPYS,63.037.472

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sister , This comes to thank you for your Letter of the 26th of
November and to give my Father and you the satisfaction of knowing that
I am <paren> I bless God </paren> in very good health , and in every
other particular as well as it is possible for any one in my place to
be at a time when things seem in so ill a posture every where else , I
mean , with respect to the safety of His Majesty and the peace of his
Government . In and for both which as all good men ought , so I in
particular by many obligations $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but be concerned
with great care and anxiety of mind , but not without hopes that God
Almighty will in due time dispell our fears and establish his Majesty
and People once more in security of Peace and Religion and the
enjoyment of the Blessings attending them . PEPYS,63.037.473

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
One misfortune there is indeed which has created mee much trouble ,
namely , That by a most manifest contrivance one of my Clerks <paren>
Atkins </paren> has been accused and is now in Custody as a party some
way concern'd in the death of Sir Edmundbury Godfroy ; which <paren>
though most untrue </paren> $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be thought to pass
in the world at soe jealous a time as this without some reflections
upon me , as his Master , and on that score does occasion me not a
little disquiet . PEPYS,63.037.474

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But I thank God I have not only my innocence to satisfy myselfe with ,
but such an assurance of his alsoe as that I make noe question of his
being <P_64> able to acquit himself with advantage to him , and infamy
to his Accusers ; PEPYS,64.037.475

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and that being done , the care which this accident occasions me will
soon be over . PEPYS,64.037.476

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the mean time , pray desire my Father to give no way to any fears
concerning me , for that I bless God I have liv'd so carefully in the
discharge of my Duty to the King my Master and the Laws I live under
both towards God , and towards men , that I have not one unjust deed or
thought to answer for , and consequently neither am myselfe , nor would
pray him to be under the least doubt or care what can befall me , it
being of no use to any man in my Place to think of supporting himselfe
by any other means that has such an innocence as mine to relye on ;
PEPYS,64.037.477

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and there , I bless God , lies my comfort , whatever befals me . Which
having said I have nothing at present to add but to pray you to
continue your care of my Father all you can , PEPYS,64.037.478

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and though through the muchness of my business I may fail you , pray do
not you fail to let me know once a week how he and your Family do .
PEPYS,64.037.479

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
So with the tenders of my most humble duty to my Father , and kind Love
to yourselfe , &c , I remaine , Your most affectionate Brother . SP_NPR
PEPYS,64.037.480

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:45
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:38
LETTER:PEPYS_037:E3:1678:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sister Jackson PEPYS,64.037.481

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_038> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_66>

{ED:68._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
King 's Bench . PEPYS,66.038.482

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
June the 26th 1679 . PEPYS,66.038.483

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , Not doubting but that this will find you at Paris , and
that there you are met with what I wrote you of the 19th Instant under
the Cover of Mr. Brisband ; this comes to tell you that I having not
yet been able to obtain a Copy of the Affidavit made by Colonel Scot
against mee <P_67> <paren> which I hoped to have had a day or 2 since
</paren> I am prevented in being able to draw out those Quaeries ,
which would be necessary for me to send to you out of it , relating to
the Court of France , PEPYS,67.038.484

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and Consequently $can $not {TEXT:cannot} send you what I in my last
promised to do by this post . PEPYS,67.038.485

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But being assur'd of being Master of that affidavit by the next , I
shall then give you what you might have expected from mee now ,
PEPYS,67.038.486

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and in the mean time pray you in Case Mr Brisband shall give you any
Commands in my Affair that you will use all diligence in the execution
of them , remaining , Your truely affectionate Brother and Servant S
P_NPR PEPYS,67.038.487

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_038:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michel PEPYS,67.038.488

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_039> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_67>

{ED:69._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

{ED:King's_Bench}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July the 3d 1679 . PEPYS,67.039.489

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have this day had your Letters of the 27th , of June
S. N. communicated to me by Will Hewer Wherein , as I am very glad to
understand of your health , so does it bring mee matter of great
surprise to find my Friend Mr Brisband expressing any dissatisfaction
in your attendance on him in the matter which concern's my Selfe about
Colonel Scot ; Not but that I hope I have by this Post Satisfied him in
his doubts both-5 concerning my not being Interested in the Business of
the Katherine , and your being in France to avoid your giveing
satisfaction to Justice in relation thereto ; PEPYS,67.039.490

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Netheless I do not thinke it becoming me to judge the reasons upon
which in his Public place {ED:he}_NP-SBJ may think adviseable for him
to avoid his appeareing with you , PEPYS,67.039.491

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore doe desire you to comply with his advice therein , in
forbearing any further visits to him , and so Soone as your own affairs
shall be done , to make the quickest repaire back to England that you
can in order to your doing right to your Selfe and the Law ; as Sir A.
D {ED:eane} and Captain More are prepareing to doe in what <paren> if
anything </paren> {in}_P you are concern'd in relation to the Charge
brought in by Captain Mohun touching the Hunter and the Katherine ,
PEPYS,67.039.492

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and this I have in my Letter this Post told Mr Brisband I had directed
you <P_68> to doe , PEPYS,68.039.493

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and would for the same Reasion have you do it without offring at any
unwelcome visite to Mr Savill , whose Friendship and Mr Brisband 's I
have had too many past proofs of , that I should Entertain any present
doubts concerning it , and think it of too much weight to me in this
occasion to offer any thing to them of offence that may interrupt it .
PEPYS,68.039.494

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
However pray fail not to wait upon Monsieur Trenchepain with my most
humble service , and acknowledgment of my humble thanks for the trouble
he is taking on my behalf at the request of my worthy Friend Mr Houblon
in reference to his Inquiries touching Mr Pellissary and one Captain
Piogery or Fiogery or some such like Name said to have been a Commander
of note in the French fleet ; PEPYS,68.039.495

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
How long either or both of them have been dead , their Religion as to
Papist , or Protestant , and what other Intimations can be found
touching the present State of Mr Pellissary 's family , In whose hands
his Bookes and Papers are , or from whom any Information can be gott
concerning them , whether any of his Servants to be met withall that
served him in 1675 about August , when Sir A. Deane carried the 2 yacks
into France , and was Entertain'd by Mr Pellissary at his House in
Paris , and lastly what familiarity Colonel Scot was knowne to have had
in Mr Pelissary 's Family , and for how long backward , and whether it
could be remembred whether Scot was upon that very day at his house at
dinner-time , when in that month Sir A: Deane was entertained there ;
all these Circumstances going very farr towards the detecting the
falsity of Colonel Scot 's villanous Accusations against Sir A: Deane
and mee ; PEPYS,68.039.496

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But , pray see that what you doe gather in this matter be truth and
nothing Else , PEPYS,68.039.497

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I would not be beholden to any lye of my owne for a defence against
another man 's . PEPYS,68.039.498

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But your Inquiries herein ought to be made with as little noise as
{with}_P may be , PEPYS,68.039.499

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore I recommend that in particular both-1 to Monsieur
Trenchepain and you , and that as to your Selfe you will consider the
making <P_69> your return home as Speedy as you can , and your Journey
as Easy as may be in the Expence of it , you knowing how many wayes of
charge a Business of this kind , which relates to so many Severall
Countries , must lead a man into , and therefore calling for all good
Husbandry to be executed therein . PEPYS,69.039.500

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
So , with wishes of health to you and my Blessing to my little Godson ,
I remain Your most affectionate Brother to serve you SP_NPR
PEPYS,69.039.501

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_039:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,69.039.502

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_040> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_74>

{ED:71._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yorke-Buildings PEPYS,74.040.503

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July the 14th 1679 PEPYS,74.040.504

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty ; I have this day received yours of the 8th Instant , for
which I thank you not doubting your haveing done the like by mine of
the 7th ditto , in which I not only inclosed one to Mr Pelletier
acknowledging his favours , but made mine to you very long and
particular in reference to all things wherein I could then , or can yet
think of ought that might be matter for your Inquiry , and which
haveing made the most of your inquiries in , I should think it would be
of most use to me that you should prepare your selfe for , and hasten
your returne . PEPYS,74.040.505

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For as to Monsieur De Seignelay , I am still of opinion to expect Mr
Brisband <paren> who is hourely lokked for </paren> before I doe any
thing towards making any further applications to him , PEPYS,74.040.506

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore desire you to forbeare it , till I shall say more to you
about it . PEPYS,74.040.507

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time , So much of the falsehood of my accuser has already
appear'd that I have my Liberty againe upon Bayle to appeare 3 or 4
monthes hence next term PEPYS,74.040.508

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and So has Sir A Deane and Captain Moore as to their Business of the
Hunter and Katherin , So that I trust in God you will not need to
apprehend any further trouble in relation thereto . PEPYS,74.040.509

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But of that <paren> as I advised you in my last </paren> you shall
heare from me as there shall be occasion , you preparing your affairs
for your returne , PEPYS,74.040.510

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for mine will not <paren> I hope </paren> give you occasion of staying
much Longer . PEPYS,74.040.511

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am now with Will Hewer at his house , PEPYS,74.040.512

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and have receiv'd from him all the Care , kindness and faithfulness of
a Son , on this occasion , for which God reward him , if I can n't .
PEPYS,74.040.513

<P_75>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Being at this time driven to use my owne hand I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
be longer because of my Eyes , PEPYS,75.040.514

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore shall add no more but my most humble Services to Mr
Trenchepain and Mr Pelletier , and my desires of your makeing your
Enquirys into the History of Captain Piogerie as perfect as you can ,
what Ships he commanded and when , and where he was in August 1675 ,
and of how much acquaintance with Monsieur De Seignelay and Monsieur
Pellissary ; remaining Your most Loving Brother to serve you SP_NPR
PEPYS,75.040.515

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_040:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,75.040.516

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_041> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_75>

{ED:72._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings PEPYS,75.041.517

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July the 17th 1679 . PEPYS,75.041.518

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , Since mine of the 14th I have received yours of the
12th Instant , for which I give you my very kindest thankes , it giving
me a very full account of your Care and diligence in my affair , as
also of the great instances you meet with of the Friendship and
Civility of Mr Trenchepain and Mr Pelletier to the later of whom
haveing lately wrote , I give you now a line or 2 to the same purpose
to the former in acknowlegment of his great favours , PEPYS,75.041.519

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and pray make both the one and the other understand how sensible I am
of them , and particularly of the last good Office which I find done me
in theirs and your Conference with Le Picard and Mr De la Valossiere
and the Attestation , which you have Sent me thereof under their hands
and the hands of the 2 Publick Notaries Which as to my own private
Satisfaction I esteem of great moment to me , though my misfortune is ,
that the Law of England will not admitt in Criminall Cases any written
Evidences , but requires all to be given personnally viva` voce in
Court , PEPYS,75.041.520

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
at least I am as yet informe'd so ; PEPYS,75.041.521

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but will indeavour to understand it a little more distinctly ,
PEPYS,75.041.522

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and in the mean time desire that you will labour to gett what further
intelligence you can touching Captain La Piogerie , and particurly in
these points following , PEPYS,75.041.523

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Vizt Where ? When ? Upon what Service and in what Command he was kill'd
? Whether he understood English or not ; whether he was in Command
<P_76> under Mr Destre`e in the French Fleet that joyn'd with Ours
against the Dutch in the last warr , and what Ship he Commanded , I
finding in one List , which I have , one La Vigerie in that Fleet ,
PEPYS,76.041.524

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and would be glad to know whether it be the same with La Piogery , whom
you mention . PEPYS,76.041.525

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray also endeavour to learn where your La Piogerie was in August 1675
, Colonel Scot having said that he was then at Rochefort and that he
was since kill'd at Tabago . Which possibly may be true and will be of
no prejudice to me if it be so ; but if you shall find it not to be
true , may be of advantage to me . PEPYS,76.041.526

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
It may also be of use to understand in whose hands his papers now are ,
and whence it is that he should be the man of all the Sea-Commanders of
France that Scot should pitch upon to have the Mapps sent to him from
Monsieur De Seignelay through the hands of Mr Pellissary .
PEPYS,76.041.527

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In a word you will doe well to indeavour to gain as particular an
account as you are able of this Gentleman by any of his Relations or
acquaintance which you can find at Paris . PEPYS,76.041.528

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray also make your selfe certain whether Mr Pellissary spoke any
English or noe . PEPYS,76.041.529

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe observe what you write of your Expectation , that by the
Friendship of Mr Vallossiere you might have acces to Monsieur Colebert
, and Monsieur De Seignelay to obtain a declaration of the truth in
this matter immediately from themselves . PEPYS,76.041.530

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But having just now understood , that Mr Brisband is arriv'd , and the
time not pressing me , I doe rather choose to forbear the giving you
any advice touching that particular , untill I have the opportunity of
seeing him , which you may depend upon my giveing you some account of
by the next post . PEPYS,76.041.531

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am sensible of what you observe touching the Interception of Letters
, and very reasonably , PEPYS,76.041.532

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but as for those 2 of yours you mention I am apt to beleeve it was
onely my forgetfulness to acknowledg to you my receit of them .
PEPYS,76.041.533

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am in no doubt of your good Husbandry , though those Infinite
expences , which this fellowes Villany puts me to , in my inquiries ,
through So many Nations after him , make my Earnest in my Cautions to
you about it . PEPYS,76.041.534

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Very sorry I am for the Indisposition you have been under in your
health , and no less gratified with the advice you give me of your
recovery , which I wish perfect to you , PEPYS,76.041.535

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine Your truely affectionate Brother and Servant S P_NPR
PEPYS,76.041.536

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_041:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,76.041.537

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_042> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_77>

{ED:74._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings . PEPYS,77.042.538

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July the 24th 1679 PEPYS,77.042.539

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have your wellcome Letter of the 19th instant
PEPYS,77.042.540

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and wrote you under the 21th Ditto . PEPYS,77.042.541

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The Contents of your Last give me additional satisfaction to what I
have received from you before PEPYS,77.042.542

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am in great Expectation of the fruits of your next visite to Mr De
la Valossiere wishing that you could obtain such an ample Certificate
<paren> as you speake of </paren> from <P_78> Madame Pellissary and her
Family ; PEPYS,78.042.543

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for it might be of present great use to me , PEPYS,78.042.544

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
however the Court , when it shall come to a Triall , may require
Somewhat more . PEPYS,78.042.545

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore be indeavouring to obtain it as Large and particular as
you can in the Circumstances which I have afore noted to you ,
PEPYS,78.042.546

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and let me have it as soon as you are able . PEPYS,78.042.547

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray also , remember what I have desired of you touching Captain La
Piogerie , PEPYS,78.042.548

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I am in doubt but upon inquiry , he that has been so bold in his
lyes relating to Monsieur Pellissary may be found no less guilty of the
like with him . PEPYS,78.042.549

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore pray be as inquisitive as you can in all the circumstances I
wrott to you concerning him , PEPYS,78.042.550

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if <paren> with the advice of Our Friends </paren> it shall be
thought convenient that Madame Pellissary her Selfe Should bee Spoken
withall , and that you could obtain a good opportunity for it , I think
it might not be unusefull . PEPYS,78.042.551

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet despatch what I would do with Mr Brisband
, he being still out of Towne ; PEPYS,78.042.552

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but at his first appearance here I shall doe it , and be then able to
come to some positive Directions to you touching your Return to England
, which you may be sure of my indeavouring to hasten all that may be .
PEPYS,78.042.553

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time I am extremely glad of your recovery PEPYS,78.042.554

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and pray heartily for the like to my Worthy Friend Monsieur Trenchepain
, to whom , and Mr Pelletier I give my most humble services ; Remaining
Your truely affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,78.042.555

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_042:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,78.042.556

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_043> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_78>

{ED:75._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
July the 28th 1679 . PEPYS,78.043.557

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother I kindly thanke you for yours of the 21 and 22th instant , and
the great instances they give me of your diligence in my concerns ,
praying you to go on with your purpose of obtaining Madame Pellissary
's and her family 's Attestation in all the particulars depending
touching Mr Scot , and to let it be as particular as you can , and
vouched per as many of her Family great and small <paren> besides her
self </paren> as {per}_P you may . PEPYS,78.043.558

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I being willing that this be done onely before a Notary as you are
advised for her Ladyship 's Ease though if more shall be hereafter
judged necessary I may come againe to her to desire more <em> , </em> I
shall not <P_79> <paren> I hope </paren> need to repeate any thing of
the particulars to be mention'd in the Attestation my former Letters
having been very plaine therein . PEPYS,79.043.559

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Nor am I against your having a Copy of so much of Mr Pellissary 's
Inventory as concerne the Charts , Globes and Mapps , though I must
pray you to remember that the things of that kind which Scot mention's
to have been Sent to him from the Marquis De Seignelay were not for him
to keep by him , but to be sent by him to Captain La Piogerie So as I
am not to expect to find them remaining among the Meubles of Mr
Pellissary . PEPYS,79.043.560

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Another thing I must pray you to note in what I already heretofore
wrote you which is , that it imports me mightily to make as little use
as I can of any Papists for my witnesses , and that therefore if a
protestant can be gott , of which you may consider , it will be of much
more Benefit and Security to me then to depend upon the Evidence of a
Papist Such as I take our worthy friend Mr Pelletier to be , though a
man of the utmost integrity , and one to whom I am infinitely bound for
his Generous Offer of coming into England , on my behalfe
PEPYS,79.043.561

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I pray you to returne him my most humble thankes accordingly ,
PEPYS,79.043.562

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but Such is the Captiousness of Our Age against any thing that is not
Protestant . PEPYS,79.043.563

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have at length spoken with Mr. Brisband , PEPYS,79.043.564

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be ready to give you my opinion touching
your applications to Monsieur De Seignelay at present PEPYS,79.043.565

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I presume I shall make use of Monsieur De Ruvigny about it and
write to you in it by the Post on monday the 4th August I being obliged
to go out of Towne for so long tomorrow . PEPYS,79.043.566

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Heartily grieved I am for Mr Trenchepain 's Sickness whose recovery I
pray for , PEPYS,79.043.567

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and beg you to present him with my most humble Services and the like to
Mr Pelletier . PEPYS,79.043.568

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray pursue your getting of Mr Le Goux 's Evidence as particularly as
you can in the points you mention . PEPYS,79.043.569

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Sister and her Family were well last night , PEPYS,79.043.570

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and full glad I am that you are so , hoping that one post or two more
will put an end to your absence from home . PEPYS,79.043.571

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Lastly , pray find out what you can of Scot 's Ever having been in the
King of France 's Service where he has heretofore bragg'd of his having
been a Major Generall under the prince of Conde` after his having
deserted the Holland 's Service , PEPYS,79.043.572

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and indeavour also to Learn any instances of his having been or
pretended to be of the Church of Rome as I am told he has to one of the
English Nunneries in Paris <P_80> about the year 1673 and was very
civilly treated by them and others on that Account , as I doubt not but
you may upon inquiry <paren> if you could find out any of his haunts
</paren> discover . PEPYS,80.043.573

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
So being driven to make use of my own Eyes in writing this , I bid you
heartily adieu , PEPYS,80.043.574

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am Your truely Loving Brother to serve you S. P_NPR
PEPYS,80.043.575

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_043:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,80.043.576

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_044> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_83>

{ED:77._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings PEPYS,83.044.577

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
August the 11th 1679 PEPYS,83.044.578

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 7th instant , whereof I inclose you
a Copy , least by some irregularity in the method of it's
superscription , it should happen to miscarry , and concerning which I
intreat you to inform me in your next ; PEPYS,83.044.579

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and in the mean time doe acknoledg to you the receit of 2 of yours of
the 5/15th and 6/16th instant . For both which I returne you my very
kind thankes , PEPYS,83.044.580

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am not wholly without reflexions of the same kind with those you
have of the Providence of God Almighty in my meeting with so large and
Easy a Concurrence of testimonies of all sorts towards the evincing the
truth of the matters depending between the Lawe and me upon the
information of Colonel Scot PEPYS,83.044.581

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am accordingly desirous of giving due praise to God for it .
PEPYS,83.044.582

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And now in reply to these 2 last of yours I observe what you write
touching the Character given to Scot by Mr Chavo the Prince of Conde`
's Secretary , and that Scot never had imployment under the Prince .
PEPYS,83.044.583

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But I am apt to beleeve from Common fame that though he may not have
been in the Prince 's Service , yet he has been within the knowledg and
under the patronage of the Prince . PEPYS,83.044.584

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I should be glad to know what Platt that was that Mr Courville saies
was shewen by Scot at the Prince 's house at Chantilly , whether it was
a Platt relating to England or not . PEPYS,83.044.585

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Though I do not see it practicable to have any of the Fathers
Benedictins come over into England , upon the Consideration that I have
more than once mentioned to you , vizt That I must , by no meanes
<paren> if it can be avoided </paren> make use of any popish Evidence ,
though it be never so innocent and true , yet I could be very glad to
have some testimony authentically drawne and signed by those Fathers
giveing a just account of any of those villanous Practises wherewith
they charge Scot ; and more particularly of those Mapps and Charts of
the English Coasts which he shewed them , as made by him for the King
of France , and would have borrowed five hundred pounds upon , of them
; and the precise time when this happened , as also of the Scandalous
Expressions he has heretofore let fall touching His Majesty .
PEPYS,83.044.586

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I will speedily visite Dr Chamberlaine and deliver him the Letter
inclosed in Mr Trenchepain 's to Mr. Houblon from Monsieur St Helene .
For which favour of Mr Trenchepain 's , though I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} do it my self under my owne hand till the next Post
<paren> I being suddenly <P_84> interrupted </paren> yet I will pray
you , for the present to deliver my most faithfull acknowledgments to
him as being an additionall instance of his great kindness to , and
concernment for me . PEPYS,84.044.587

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I do greatly long to receive the Effects of Madame Pellissary 's
Justice and her Family 's , PEPYS,84.044.588

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but do most readily Leave it to be obtain'd by you , with such dispatch
as you shall find convenient with respect to her . PEPYS,84.044.589

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray pursue your inquiry as farr as you can in relation to Scot 's
Religion , PEPYS,84.044.590

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for <paren> as little as I agree with those popish Fathers in other
matters </paren> I am much of the same mind with them in their belief
of his Religion vizt That he passes for a papist in France as he
desires to do of a protestant in England ; PEPYS,84.044.591

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and from the Course you are taking among them and the Nunnerys I doubt
not but the truth may be discovered . PEPYS,84.044.592

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if you find it not so convenient , and easy as I could wish , of
having the testimony of the Fathers themselves touching the
aforemention'd particulars which they have declared to you and the
other 3 Gentlemen , pray get it well certified and sworn too by them ;
and the Like <paren> in particular paper </paren> of what Butterfield
the English Mathematicall Instrument-maker at Paris {ED:said}_VBD to
the Same Effect , touching Scot 's having a Large Chart of the Coast of
England . PEPYS,84.044.593

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The like I desire , if it Can be obtained , of the English Watchmaker
's Testimony of Scot 's Mapps &c and his Running away in his Debts ,
expressing the precise time of Scot 's Lodging at his House , and when
he went last away . PEPYS,84.044.594

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And perfect as farr as you can the Inquiry you are making of the Same
kind with Mr Point the Mapp-seller there as soon as he comes to Towne .
PEPYS,84.044.595

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if any thing be to be purchased that will appear to be of Scot 's
making or providing , pray get it . PEPYS,84.044.596

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thank you for the Copy you send me of Sherwin 's Paper , which does
give me some further Light towards the interpreting what you last sent
me under Manning 's ; and may be of great use to me , if Sherwin can be
found out , which I shall indeavour . PEPYS,84.044.597

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time pray take care of the Originall of Sherwin 's paper ,
PEPYS,84.044.598

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if you can obtain any further information touching him or Manning
let me have it . Which , with referring you , in other particulars , to
my Last , is all at present from Your truely affectionate Brother to
serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,84.044.599

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_044:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,84.044.600

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_045> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_85>

{ED:78._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings PEPYS,85.045.601

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
August the 18th 1679 PEPYS,85.045.602

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have receiv'd yours of the 13/23th instant , for
which I thank you , PEPYS,85.045.603

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am in the first place to let you know that mine under the 7th being
seal'd and sent away by one of my Servants in my absence , it had not
my seale , but for want thereof was seal'd by him with a peece of money
the same that you have sent me over ; so as I do not find that the
Letter did meet with any ill hands ; PEPYS,85.045.604

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Nevertheless your Inquiry was very reasonable PEPYS,85.045.605

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I thank you for it , PEPYS,85.045.606

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and the truth is when I came home and found in what an unusuall manner
{in}_P he had addressed it I was discomposed at it , and jealous of
some miscarriage as you will find by my Inquiry after it in my last .
PEPYS,85.045.607

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next I am to thank you for the care I see you have taken in the
obtaining and dispatching of the Severall Declarations of Mme
Pellissary and her Family , wherein I acknowledge to receive great
satisfaction as that which will direct me towards the gaining of a
great deale more . PEPYS,85.045.608

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
This onely I shall note to you upon them that as I have heretofore
observed to you the not finding of the pretended Mapps and Charts &c
among Mr Pellissary 's papers <paren> which is so Industriously proved
in these Declarations </paren> is not a Circumstance of any great
weight in my Cause , for as much as Scot does not pretend they were
sent to Mr Pellissary to remaine with him , but to be by him sent to La
Piogery . PEPYS,85.045.609

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
On the other hand , though it still sufficiently appears by these
Declarations that Scot did not dine at Mr Pellissarys nor was at his
house the day that Sir A. D. dined there , yet I find by them that Scot
was not so intirely a stranger to that house , as your Severall Letters
heretofore lead me to think upon your first discourses with Mr Landry ,
and the Picard PEPYS,85.045.610

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I therefore could wish that you could gaine me some intelligence
that might inform me a little more particularly how much <paren> at
most </paren> Scot 's acquaintance in that Family did amount to , viz
whether he did come often thither , whether he had any Familiarity with
Mr Pellissary , whether he did ever dine there and if ever how often ,
and whether at the table with Mr Pellissary and his Lady , and with any
intimacy PEPYS,85.045.611

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For in these particulars these Declarations you have sent me are as
good as silent , PEPYS,85.045.612

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore it being those Declarations that we must found our
present belief upon , and not upon what I am to gather out of your
former Letters and private Discourses with these people it will be very
necessary that I be made more clear therein ; PEPYS,85.045.613

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For otherwise it will be easy for him to magnify his Intimacy with Mr
Pellissary and <P_86> his Family beyond the truth as much as he pleases
<paren> since it does appear that he was in some degree knowne to them
</paren> and I be wholly unable to disprove him , notwithstanding what
in this Letter you say touching Mme Pellissary 's Declaring that She
never knew , nor to her knowledg Ever saw him . PEPYS,86.045.614

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thank you for what you bid me expect by the next of further
Informations touching Scot , PEPYS,86.045.615

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as to that particular you write me about his Discourse <paren> at
his last being there </paren> with one Mr Foster I intreat you by all
meanes to discourse further with him upon that subject , and if you can
get his declaration of it before a Public Notary <paren> as you did the
rest </paren> leading him to be as particular in it as you are able .
PEPYS,86.045.616

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For against a Lyar the best defence in the world is to obtaine the most
you can of his Discourse ; because let his memory be never so good , if
he gives himselfe the Liberty of talking much he $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} avoid discovering himself . PEPYS,86.045.617

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But that which I would more Especially recommend to you is the
informing yourself from Mr Foster whether Scot did not let fall to him
words of the Same Effect which I find he has to others vizt of his
disgust towards me and design of revenging himself upon me by these
accusations , for my arraigning him <paren> as he imagines </paren> in
parliament of being a Jesuite , and of his running out of England upon
the business of the plott ; whereas I was indeed the occasion of
pursuing a suspicious person about that time out of England upon notice
given me of him from Mr. Pierce from Graves End . Which person proved
at length to be this very Scott , PEPYS,86.045.618

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I was so farr from knowing it to be him , when the pursuite was
made , that I pursued him by the Name of Godfrey that being the Name
which he went by at that time at Graves End as at other times I finde
he has gone by other Names . PEPYS,86.045.619

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Besides that he is to me wholly a stranger as being one whose Name I
never knew , nor his person till he came to the Barr of the house of
Commons to accuse me . PEPYS,86.045.620

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But this <paren> as I understand </paren> he has in some places said ,
PEPYS,86.045.621

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I beleeve to be the onely real ground of his takeing this Course of
injureing me . PEPYS,86.045.622

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore pray See whether you can gather any thing to that purpose
out of his Discourses to Foster , as also of the particular uses he has
made of the D. of B. or Lord S his Names , or one Mr Wentworse 's as to
any Direction , Advice , Letters or Intelligence he has received from
any of them relating to me or my Affairs , or his being Sent for by
them over into England and the particular of the time when these
Discourses between Scott and Foster did happen . Not leaving out what
you say of Scot 's telling him that he was carrying over to the D. of
B. and Lord S Copies of S. P_NPR 's Letters to Mr De Signelay .
PEPYS,86.045.623

<P_87>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next , for La Piogerie , I am greatly inlightened by you in relation to
him , PEPYS,87.045.624

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for Scot did , at his last appearance in Court declare that he was
Major of the Fleet under Monsieur Destree , as I also find him to have
then been in the printed Book of Ordonnances of the king of France
relating to the Marine , where he is stiled Le Sieur Herou`ard de la
Piogerie Major de la Marine de Ponant 1672 Upon which it is of great
importance to me to know what the Office of Major de la Marine is , it
Seeming by your Discourse to appertaine more to Land then Sea Service ,
PEPYS,87.045.625

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and then it seem's very improbable that Mr De Seignelay should direct
these papers to one that was not a sea-man . PEPYS,87.045.626

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I the rather beleeve that if he was any sea-man he was no great one
; because he is said never to have been a sea-Commander till the year
1676 , PEPYS,87.045.627

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and then commanded no bigger ship then the Emerillon which I find was
but a Bruslot of Tuns men 24 Guns in the year 1673 commanded by One
Monsieur Serpent under Monsieur le Comte Destree . PEPYS,87.045.628

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore inquire out this a little further , and whether she went
in the same Capacity as a fire ship or as a Man of warr to Tabago ,
when La Piogerie commanded her in the year 1676 . PEPYS,87.045.629

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For what you Note concerning La Piogery 's not being at Paris in August
1675 Scot declares the same himself PEPYS,87.045.630

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and there upon foundes his story of Monsieur De Seignelay 's sending
the papers to Mr Pellissary to be by him sent to La Piogerie at
Rochefort . PEPYS,87.045.631

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And yet me think's it should not be hard to find out at Paris some of
the acquaintance of La Piogery that might give us some usefull
Informations towards the further discovering this villaine 's forgeries
, by Circumstances relating to this Gentleman La Piogerie .
PEPYS,87.045.632

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I take great notice of yours and our Friends opinion touching the
Method of addressing to Mr De Seignelay , PEPYS,87.045.633

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and shall govern my self by it as you shall find by my next or very
suddenly . PEPYS,87.045.634

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours of the 6th instant with Sherwin 's petition I have received as
you will find by my last . PEPYS,87.045.635

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My sister and your Little ones were very well the last night .
PEPYS,87.045.636

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Assoon as Will Hewer returnes <paren> he being at this instant out of
Towne </paren> I will doe your desires to him . PEPYS,87.045.637

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Blessing to my Little Godson ; PEPYS,87.045.638

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and Leaving to you the delevery of the inclosed , I remaine Your Ever
affectionate Brother and Servant S P_NPR PEPYS,87.045.639

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_045:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,87.045.640

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_046> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_88>

{ED:80._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings PEPYS,88.046.641

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
August the 28th 1679 PEPYS,88.046.642

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 25th in answer to yours of the
instant . Since which I have yours of the 23th giving me a large and
very welcome <P_89> account of your finding and discoursing with
Sherwin , and your purpose of taking the substance thereof in writing
before a Publick Notary as the rest have been , hoping that you will do
it as expressly and particularly as you can in all matters of truth
wherein you can be informed by him not onely with reference to the
matters you have already from him but what further particulars he may
by his intimacy with Scot be inabled to inform you . Among which one
usefull one may be the business of his Gun-founding mentioned in one of
the last papers you sent me . PEPYS,89.046.643

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I have heard that among the rest of rogueries one was his invegling
some of Prince Rupert 's workmen imployd in his new Invention about
Guns and carrying them into France , where he offer'd to discover and
manage the same for that King and made shift to cheate not onely those
that imploy'd him but the poor workmen that he carryed over with him .
Of which I know not how much is true , but would be glad to learn , and
by my finding his Name in Manning 's Paper to guess that he may know
that Matter or , which is better , direct us to some others that doe ,
PEPYS,89.046.644

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For not onely a further proof of his knaveries will be obtain'd by it
but of his interesting himself in the Crime he would charge me with of
Serving the king of France . PEPYS,89.046.645

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And pray see whether he $can $not {TEXT:cannot} direct us to persons
that may inlighten us in any other parts of his infamous history ,
PEPYS,89.046.646

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and let me also know what stay he meanes to make in France , and
whether I may expect him here in England within a month or 2 at the
furthest . Which if I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} , it will the more import
mee to get his help in directing me to any others that will be here
upon the place able to give any usefull evidence in this affair .
PEPYS,89.046.647

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Not that I shall omitt discoursing with Captain Gunman , but the Law
puts little force upon any report but those of the first hand . Which
having Said as to Sherwin , let me desire the Same of you as to Foster
, PEPYS,89.046.648

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for he may also direct us to people that may be able to add to our
knowledge of Scott . PEPYS,89.046.649

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But of this Foster , I beleeve I may say more in my next , after I have
had My Lady Pratt 's account of him . PEPYS,89.046.650

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I could also wish that since nothing can be authentically had of that
of Scott 's Conversation with the Benedictin Monks , it not standing
with their methods to give the same attestations of matters of fact ,
which Laymen do , and possibly it is never a whit the worse <paren> for
<P_90> I know not what use I could with safety make of their
attestations if I had them </paren> yet for as much as the English
Benedictins at Paris , as well as those here , are said to have been
very active in this plott , I could wish <paren> I say </paren> that
his Conversation and dealings with those Monks at Paris could <paren>
if true </paren> be evidenced by any other hand , PEPYS,90.046.651

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I should think that better , then by the Monkes themselves ,
PEPYS,90.046.652

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if in truth he had any such dealings with them , I doubt not but
the same must have come to the Observation of others as well as them .
PEPYS,90.046.653

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What remains further for me to say to you at present <paren> as not
being yet enough prepared for Mr De Seignelay </paren> is the praying
that in order to the preventing any oversights on your part of any of
the particulars which I have from the beginning of this affair
recommended to you ; and that you might have the whole in your view
before your coming away , which I presume will not be long after your
applications shall be made to Mr De Seignelay , you would once for all
overlook all my Letters and <paren> comparing the Same with the answers
and papers which I have had from you </paren> collect what you shall
find to remain , either not at all <paren> if there be any such thing
</paren> or imperfectly answered , and See the Same Supplied as soon as
you can . PEPYS,90.046.654

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for as much as it may behoove me that Some persons be gott hither ,
that their Evidences of the truth may be given Viva voce in Court
<paren> which from the chargeableness of it ought nevertheless to be as
few as may be </paren> I desire you to consider and give me advice who
you think may be obtained on that account , and particularly in
relation to Madame Pellissary 's Family to justify Scott 's not being
intimate there , nor being there at all either-6 in publick or private
the day when the Entertainment was . PEPYS,90.046.655

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And it would also be of use to learn what English protestant Gentlemen
now there are at Paris , who may probably be in England within 6 weeks
or 2 monthes at the furthest ; PEPYS,90.046.656

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for it would doe mighty well , if some or other of them could be
brought to discourse particularly with the people of that family , and
thereby be inabled to evidence the truth of the Same at their coming
into England . Which recommending to you I remain Your affectionate
Brother and Servant S P_NPR PEPYS,90.046.657

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My just saluts to Mr Trenchepain and Mr Pelletier PEPYS,90.046.658

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_046:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St. Michell PEPYS,90.046.659

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_047> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_91>

{ED:81._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
London . PEPYS,91.047.660

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
August the , 1679 PEPYS,91.047.661

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , Though it pleased God to allow of my obtaining at length so much
justice from the Court as to become Master of my Liberty upon bayle
till the next Term ; yet it does not give me such a freedom as to ease
me of my Cares , for the defending my Selfe against what new attempts
my Adversary and his Upholders may make upon me , when they shall
receive fresh encouragement <paren> as they Seem to hope </paren> from
the Countenance of some persons in the approaching parliament . Which I
take notice of to you , not that either I have or would have you
entertain any fears concerning the issues of any accusations that
Either have or can be brought against me ; for <paren> I thank God
</paren> I have alwaies carried about me Such a watchfulness and
Integrity as will Support me , <paren> with God 's assistance </paren>
, against any thing that the Malice of Mankind can offer to my
prejudice ; but onely to excuse to you my being yet no frequenter in my
Letters , which nevertheless I should be if any thing of my
Concernments or health should happen extraordinary to give me occasion
of writing to you , which neither has nor does now , unless it be to
let you know that during the great Sickliness of the present season , I
am <paren> I bless God </paren> in a perfect state of health , and do
think long to hear that you and your family are the same .
PEPYS,91.047.662

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doe not forget my undertaking to my Sister to make you a visite
before the end of Summer , PEPYS,91.047.663

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but will labour to order it so <paren> if it be possible , </paren>
that I may do it when the King is at New-markett , as being willing to
save a double Journey if I can , and to be as little absent from hence
as may be . PEPYS,91.047.664

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And this I fully hope to doe ; the King 's Illness , which lately
threatened the contrary , being , <paren> God be praised , </paren> in
a great degree over , and he under the same purpose as before of going
to New-Markett . Which , with the Tender of my most humble duty to you
, and true Love to my Sister and her Family , together with the begging
of your Blessing , is all at present from Honoured Sir Your ever
dutifull son S P_NPR PEPYS,91.047.665

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:46
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:78
LETTER:PEPYS_047:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To My Father PEPYS,91.047.666

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_048> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_92>

{ED:82._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
September the 1st 1679 . PEPYS,92.048.667

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 28th in answer to yours of the 23th
of August . Since which I have your other of the 27th for which I very
kindly thank you as being a large and carefull summing up of the
severall particulars of my demands to you and a Comparing of them with
your replies . Which being many I shall not at present make you any
other return to them then the telling you , that however I may seem in
any point less satisfied then you might expect or could wish I doe
assure it 's farr from arising from any thoughts of your haveing done
less or with less success then you might have done . PEPYS,92.048.668

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I am to the fullest degree satisfied with your Care , diligence and
discretion exprest on this occasion . PEPYS,92.048.669

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But when you consider the strictness of our Lawes , perfidiousness of
my Adversary and the public prejudice my Cause and I doe at present lye
under , you will forgive me , if I seem a little more importunate with
you , then on another less important occasion I should and ought to be
, PEPYS,92.048.670

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore as I have advised you to doe in my last I shall ,
according to your advice to me in this , overhall all that has past
between you and me , and give you the result thereof in writting ,
wherein you shall have the plain and express terms , what ever I shall
have to desire of you , beyond what you have already furnisht me with ;
observing this onely in the mean time , that though what Mr Trenchepain
and the other Gentlemen doe testify , of what Sherwin and Foster tell
them , of what they heard from Scot , may in our private Judgments
convince you and me ; yet so remote an evidence as that <paren> which
is only a hearsay of a hearsay </paren> will never convince , or be
suffer'd so much as to be read in Court . PEPYS,92.048.671

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore though our Cause be in itselfe never so innocent it may
never the less very well miscarry if we do not labour as much as we can
to support it by witnesses of the first hand , and not Such as are so
remote . PEPYS,92.048.672

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As for my delay in sending you letters to Mr De Seignelay I do not
onely excuse , but thank you for your earnestness therein .
PEPYS,92.048.673

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But my friends and I are very doubtfull of the ill-consequences that
may happen from my applying my Selfe to him at all , especially in a
Cause wherein the right which I am labouring to obtain from him may be
perverted to the doing me the greatest wrong . In so much that some of
my friends are of opinion to let all Negotiation with Mr De Seignelay
alone and trust God Almighty with the success of our other evidences
onely . PEPYS,92.048.674

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Do not therefore impute it to any delay or want of <P_93> care of my
owne concernments that I am so long in my determinations in this matter
PEPYS,93.048.675

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I am at this very time at a stand againe about it ,
PEPYS,93.048.676

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and forbeare to send the Letters I had prepared for you by this post
untill I have further advised upon it . PEPYS,93.048.677

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Walbank tell's me that My Lady Pratt does owne Mr Foster for her
Brother and that he is supplied with monies from her and his Friends
here . PEPYS,93.048.678

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
So as you may make use of your relation to him in getting what further
informations you can from him . Pray consider what I have wrote you
touching your finding out what English persons of credit <paren>
whether of the Court or others </paren> are likely to come for England
within a month or 6 weeks . That I may get some of them to hear some of
the most valuable of our witnesses declare the truth of their knowledge
in this matter to them Viva voce in order to their being able to
evidence the same in Court , when they returne hither .
PEPYS,93.048.679

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Lastly , I am extremely sorry to find my little Godson infirme in his
health , PEPYS,93.048.680

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and doe agree with you for your bringing him over into England when you
come , as being more perswaded of the necessity of it , by the account
you give me of the charge of keeping him longer there , which I am sure
the condition you are at present in , will not be able to beare .
PEPYS,93.048.681

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore you may be putting things in order for his Coming with you ,
forbearing alsoe the trouble and charge of looking out for a Tutor for
him in France ; for as much as I conceive that that may be much better
and cheaper provided for here , of which I shall say more to you before
your Coming away . PEPYS,93.048.682

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time letting you know that my Sister and your Little ones
are in health here , I remaine Your truely affectionate Brother and
servant S P_NPR PEPYS,93.048.683

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_048:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,93.048.684

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_049> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_95>

{ED:84._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
York-Buildings , PEPYS,95.049.685

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
September the 11th 1679 . PEPYS,95.049.686

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My two last were of the 1st and 4th instant . Since
which <paren> vizt last night </paren> I have received yours of the
6/16th , and am indeed truely sensible of your very great diligence in
my affaire and do not doubt to enjoy the Benefit which you design me by
it , but hope I may be again in condition of letting you and your
Family receive some fruits also therefrom to your advantage .
PEPYS,95.049.687

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am at a great loss what to advise concerning Sherwin , it being , as
you very well note , a mighty tender point , I meane , the furnishing
him with money , though upon never so just an account ; it being so
liable to misconstruction . PEPYS,95.049.688

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I therefore will respite the determining any thing in it till I have
better advice upon it , which I hope to have against the new post ;
wishing onely that I had some plainer Characters given me of him , as
to his quality , and manner of liveing , and who there is here that
could give me any knowledge of him . PEPYS,95.049.689

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For as he has <P_96> more or less the reputation of an honest man I
should reckon my selfe the more Safe in our negotiating with him , it
being not enough in this age , and in the company I am fallen into , to
have the innocence of a Dove , without some mixture of the Serpent 's
prudence . PEPYS,96.049.690

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Besides , that I finde Scot has his Spyes upon my inquirys in Holland ,
PEPYS,96.049.691

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I doubt not but he has Craft enough to have the Same in France .
PEPYS,96.049.692

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And one thing more let me observe to you , that it is not Sherwin 's ,
or any other man 's Evidence of Scot 's ill language towards the King ,
that will doe me good ; but as it is joyn'd with proof of his villanous
practices in this particular Case , which relates to me ,
PEPYS,96.049.693

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore to that point must principally be directed the forces of
the Evidences we are to labour after . Not but that the others joyned
with this will be also in some degree usefull ; especially if his
faults against His Majesty and the Government shall appeare by deeds ,
as well as in the undutifulness of his discourses . PEPYS,96.049.694

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Lady Pratt was very lately out of towne , PEPYS,96.049.695

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I will instantly inquire where she now is , and endeavour to get
the letter you desire . PEPYS,96.049.696

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Though I have in my last said enough of my present thoughts and cares
about Monsieur de Seignelay , and am no less impatient then you can be
, till I come to some prudent issue concerning him ; yet I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} but note that your zeale therein seemes to be founded
upon a very great mistake . PEPYS,96.049.697

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For instead of the World 's receiving their fullest Satisfaction from
him ; his evidence would <paren> as the World is now bent </paren> give
me more prejudice in the opinion of the Publick , then any thing that
could be offer'd ; and the more , by how much {by}_P that Evidence of
his were more in my justification . PEPYS,96.049.698

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
That therefore which makes me think it of so much moment is the regard
I have to the particular Satisfaction of the King my Master , from whom
I may expect all impartiality of Judgement , PEPYS,96.049.699

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and then I doubt not but the account I may expect from Monsieur de
Seignelay will be such , and so cleare <paren> if he be a man of that
truth and Justice , which he is reported to be </paren> as will doe me
full right in the King 's opinion , whose good thoughts of me , I had
rather dye under , then live to have the good opinion of the rabble
purchased by one ill deed , or thought . PEPYS,96.049.700

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As to the business of getting some witnesses to come over hither in
person , I doe greatly approve of your care in what you say about
Monsieur Trenchepain , and the other Gentlemen , who have been
witnesses to the papers you have sent me ; PEPYS,96.049.701

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I must pray you still to remember that one witness Viva` voce is
more then hear-say ; and that therefore it will be necessary to
consider , whether any of Madame Pellissary 's family , or the rest ,
whose Testimonies , you have Sent me in paper , can <paren> if need be
</paren> be gott to come over . Which I recommend extraordinarily to
you . PEPYS,96.049.702

<P_97>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I greatly thanke you for your explanation of the business of Mannning
's Challenge , PEPYS,97.049.703

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and would with all my heart know where Manning is , and whether he may
become to be spoken with . PEPYS,97.049.704

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I also greatly thanke you for what you write about Mr Filding , whom I
shall expect . PEPYS,97.049.705

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As for what concernes my Nephew Samuell , concerning him I gave you my
thoughts and Advice in mine of the 1st instant , whereto I referr you ,
PEPYS,97.049.706

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine Your truely affectionate brother to Serve you S P_NPR
PEPYS,97.049.707

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_049:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St. Michell PEPYS,97.049.708

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_050> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_97>

{ED:85._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Westminster , PEPYS,97.050.709

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
September the 18th 1679 PEPYS,97.050.710

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 11th instant , answering yours of
the 6/16th . Since which , being prevented the last post , I have 2 of
yours to answer , namely , of the and 13th , whereto , by the
attendance I am at this time to give upon His Majesty and the Duke , as
being just now come from Windsore , I Shall not be able to make that
large reply which I otherwise might doe . PEPYS,97.050.711

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Nevertheless without any unnecessary repetitions of my generall
satisfaction in the dilligence and care you daily express in my
concerns , nedding noe fresh professions of kindness on your part , I
must in this express a more particular degree of satisfaction in the
paper you send me from Mr Joyne under Scot 's owne hand , which
contain's severall matters very usefull and bring their owne Evidence
with them . PEPYS,97.050.712

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I wish to God we could gett some more such , they being <paren> I say
</paren> very usefull and of credit without exception .
PEPYS,97.050.713

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore cherish your acquaintance with Mr Joyne PEPYS,97.050.714

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and improve it to my benefitt by getting him to look up any more papers
he has of like kind in his hands , as farr as honestly you can .
PEPYS,97.050.715

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For as hard as you think of it , the Law is not to be disputed but
obeyd , PEPYS,97.050.716

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore we must labour to gett such evidences as our Laws will
accept of , among which Writtings are a principall . PEPYS,97.050.717

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And such will Sherwin 's testimony be if he comes over , as Mr Filding
<paren> who very civilly gave me your letter and a visite yesterday
</paren> tell's me , he very suddenly will ; though others , I find ,
are of another opinion , as Suspecting that he dares not , upon the
Score of his fowle play <paren> as is said </paren> with Prince Rupert
, about the Guns . PEPYS,97.050.718

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Besides , I am told , that Monsieur Le Febure the King 's Apothecary
<P_98> <paren> a protestant </paren> is at this time at Paris , and by
a Letter , which I may possibly send you by the next , to adress you to
him , I doubt not but he will be ready to doe me any good Office in
company with you , that may inable him to give his testimony therein ,
at his returne hither , which , I am told , is likely to be time enough
for my using it . As Mr Dulivier <paren> whom I presume you know
</paren> a merchant of London , might and would have done , had it been
thought on ; he being lately come from Paris with an English Gentleman
of my acquaintance ; both of whom would most readily have done mee any
Service . PEPYS,98.050.719

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Againe , pray faile not , to recover <paren> if possible by Mr Joyne ,
or from some Correspondent of his at Nevers , the precise time when
Scot came from thence to Paris . PEPYS,98.050.720

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I find that he was at Nevers the beginning of August 1675 and in
October following . Whereas , if his accusations be true , he must have
been at Paris about the middle or of August . PEPYS,98.050.721

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore , without declaring to any body the reasons of your inquiry ,
pray labour effectually , to collect the very time of his coming to
Paris from Nevers , that it may certainly appear to us , whether he was
indeed at Paris any time within the month of August 1675 , and how much
, it being of extraordinary importance to me to be able to know and
prove it . PEPYS,98.050.722

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And me thinks either by Joyne , Mademoiselle De Moulins , or by some
papers , letters or accounts the certainty of that particular may be
found out . PEPYS,98.050.723

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And pray inquire too , whether Scot did appeare publicly and openly in
Paris at his last being there ; or whether he Sculked up and downe
incognito ; Some people telling me that his knaverys about the Guns and
the multitude of his debts are such as would make him a prisoner , if
he were $known to be there . PEPYS,98.050.724

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But that which I have principally to observe to you at this time is for
the easing you of your paine about Monsieur Denize , his writting to
Paris having been wholly in my favour , and done before I had
opportunity , or indeed thought it necessary , to acquaint him with
your being already at worke there . PEPYS,98.050.725

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And so usefull I find him on this Occasion , that I am sorry with all
my heart I thought no sooner of him , he being a Protestant , as well
as acquainted with the Court of France , and the Officers of the French
Navy , and in himselfe a very honest man , of very good Credit , and
one whom upon these Considerations I should think the fittest for me to
imploy into France if <paren> as you seem to advise </paren> it shall
be judged necessary to send one . PEPYS,98.050.726

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I am greatly inclined to think that that will be much more
effectuall , and in every respect better then to bring over such
Gentlemen of business , as Mr Trenchepain , Monsieur Pelletier and
others , to attend here for a time uncertain , onely to give Evidence
of what they know from other men ; PEPYS,98.050.727

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as to Mr Trenchepain I find by his letters <P_99> to Mr Houblon
that his affaires will in noe wise give him leave to come over .
PEPYS,99.050.728

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore pray forbeare to putt him or any of the rest into any
apprehensions of my being likely to desire it of them ; it being a
thing very unfitt for me to ask , Since it may as well <paren> I
beleeve </paren> bee Supply'd by Sending one over from Hence to France
; PEPYS,99.050.729

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and if I can gett him , I doe think Mr Denise will be the properest man
I can send , he being personally acquainted with Madame Pellissary and
her familly , and all $or most of the persons I have yet heard named ,
from whom I am to expect information or aide . PEPYS,99.050.730

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But of this I shall by the next say a little more , and in the meantime
tell you , that having acquainted him with your being now at Paris
before yours of the came to me he expresst great Satisfaction , and of
his owne accord brought me a letter from himself to you with Severall
others he addresses you to for information upon his Score . Which
having wrote , before <paren> I say </paren> yours came to me , you
will finde that had yours come sooner , part of what he has wrote might
have been Spared . PEPYS,99.050.731

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
However I send them all inclosed , PEPYS,99.050.732

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and recommend them to your care to Seale and dispose of , as upon
reading you shall find convenient . PEPYS,99.050.733

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Onely let me advise you to respite the making use of anything that he
has wrote Towards Mr De Seignelay , till you hear further from me ,
Which I now think , you may depend upon by the next . PEPYS,99.050.734

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And that you may the better understand the grounds of his present
writting , I doe here Send you , Copys of what he received from
Monsieur De Brulis and Monsieur Houdan , in answer to his 1st to them
on this affaire ; by which you have all before you ; PEPYS,99.050.735

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
it being very late , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} now say more ,
PEPYS,99.050.736

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but shall supply it in my next , remaining Your most affectionate
Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,99.050.737

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_050:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,99.050.738

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_051> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_102>

{ED:87._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
September the 29th 1679 . PEPYS,102.051.739

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 25th instant wherein , among other
things , I advised you according to your late proposall , that I
design'd , by this <P_103> Post , to dispatch away Mr Denise to joyn
with you in the attesting such declarations as have already , and may
further be necessary to have made at Paris in my affaire , and thereby
not onely save a great deale of charge and trouble of bringing over
Witnesses on purpose for that use , but be further assisting to you in
compleating and perfecting all that is now to be done , and will
require to be dispatch'd with all diligence in the business wherein you
have made soe great and unexpected an advancement , to my extraordinary
satisfaction , and alsoe of Sir A Deane 's who recommend {ED:s} him
selfe in particular by mee to you with his thankes in an especiall
manner for that which you lately mentioned concerning him , and in
which he bid's mee tell you that you need not to be under any care in
relation to that matter , PEPYS,103.051.740

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for nothing ever passed , either-1 in discourse or other wayes between
Monsieur De Seignelay and him , that can give any rise to that
suggestion , or can give either him or me any trouble .
PEPYS,103.051.741

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Now , that you may know throughly all that remaines behind for Sir A D
, or mee to desire from you , and wherein Monsieur Denise 's assistance
<paren> who is a very honest man , a man of great diligence ,
discretion , and your Friend as well as Ours </paren> may bee very
usefull in regard of the muchness of the Worke , and Shortness of the
time ; wee have overhall'd the whole business in every parte of it ,
and collected into Severall distinct heads in writting all the Points ,
wherein wee desire Satisfaction ; one Copy of Which Monsieur Denise has
, PEPYS,103.051.742

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and we here inclose another to you ; desireing <paren> for your more
strict execution thereof , and knowing from time to time your
advancement therein </paren> that you would each of you cause the Same
to be forthwith transcrib'd with a blank left against each article ;
and as the Same are perform'd cause the performance thereof to be
entred in the Said blank . PEPYS,103.051.743

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe alsoe send you a Copy of the heads of Scot 's accusation against
us , in French , in the termes wherein they have been delivered to the
French Ambassador here and will be in the joynt letter , which Sir A D
and I have resolved to send to Monsieur De Seignelay to be deliver'd by
you and Monsieur Denise to him , without any letter from any other
persons , as thinking it <paren> upon long consideration </paren>
neither convenient nor necessary in the condition , which by your care
, and God 's Providence our business is brought into ; we being under
noe want <paren> Nor could make use , if we had it </paren> of any
$Justification from Mr De Seignelay him selfe <paren> that is to say in
the Court where our Cause is to be tryed </paren> PEPYS,103.051.744

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but that which we expect from him <P_104> to be of any use to us is ,
the helping us to some other sort of Evidences , either-2 by papers ,
or persons that may conduct to the clearing of our innocence without
makeing any use of his Name . PEPYS,104.051.745

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Wee therefore leave the Season and manner of delivering that letter to
him , and what others Mr Denise bring's from us to Mr De Ruvigny , Mr
Colbert , Mr Mignon , to you two , and the solliciting for the effects
thereof . Which recommending to you , and referring you for other
Particulars to another of this date , which I shall alsoe putt into the
hands of Mr Denise before his departure . I remaine Your truely
affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,104.051.746

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_051:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,104.051.747

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_052> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_104>

{ED:88._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,104.052.748

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
September 29th 1679 PEPYS,104.052.749

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , I have already wrote you in another which you will
receive herewith by the hands of Mr Denise . Whereto , haveing received
nothing from you by the last post , what I have to add is in the 1st
place to repeat to you my acknowledgments of the satisfaction which I
have receiv'd from you in the whole Conduct of my affaire , and more
particularly in your 2 last , which one would think <paren> had I noe
other evidence </paren> were enough to render all that that Villain
Scot can say , of noe credit among sober men . PEPYS,104.052.750

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Such nevertheless is the Credulity of this unhappy Age to reports that
are in any kind partiall to the side that prevailes , that noe
accumulation of evidence can be too much to justify the most obvious
Truth ; PEPYS,104.052.751

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore I dare not let goe the Hint you lately gave mee , of
sending one into France to joyn with you in taking , and bringing over
the Attestations of such persons as $can $not {TEXT:cannot} either at
all , or without too much charge and trouble be conveigh'd hither Viva`
voce . To which end Mr Denise now comes , who has already given mee
great proof of his Capacity and willingness to Serve mee in this
Affaire ; and has been the rather pitcht upon by mee , for the same ,
upon the score of his Credit here , and his being soe friendly a Wisher
to , and soe well thought on by you . PEPYS,104.052.752

<P_105>

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What the particulars are wherein Sir A D and I doe now expect the
fruites of this your joynt care , I have given you most distinctly in
my other , whereto I referr you , without any mention thereof againe
here , more then the recommending to you most especially that which
concern's the providing one or 2 Substantiall Witnesses <paren> if
possible </paren> to prove the little acquaintance which Scot had with
Mr Pellissary and in {ED:his} family in generall , as well as that in
particular he was not in Mr Pellissary 's house , much less din'd there
, either publikly or privately , upon the day soe much spoken of .
PEPYS,105.052.753

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And here let me observe , that as I doe againe recommend to you and Mr
Denise all good husbandry consistent with the well doing of the
business you are about ; soe I doe in particular desire you to express
it as much as you can in the secureing those witnesses soe as we may
have them when we need , and shall send for them , without bringing
over more along with you <paren> which I design may be before the 23th
of October the 1st day of the Term </paren> then what seem otherwise
disposed to have come , if this occasion had not happend vizt Mr Joyne
and Sherwin . PEPYS,105.052.754

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I could wish that Mr Foster could bee here alsoe , that we might
have two good witnesses to those words , of Scot 's declaring his
purpose of being revenged of mee for accusing him of being a Jesuite .
PEPYS,105.052.755

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I doe not find that any body declares that particularly but onely
Joyne and Foster , which would be of great moment to mee to have well
prov'd . PEPYS,105.052.756

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The gathering alsoe <paren> as I have elsewhere observed to you
</paren> of every Scrip of paper of Scot 's owne writting that can be
found , would be of great use , PEPYS,105.052.757

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
let it be almost of what Subject {of}_P it would . PEPYS,105.052.758

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As to Mr Joyne , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} enough express the Content I
have in the fulness of his report , and the ingenuity of his giving it
, upon the onely consideration of doeing right to the innocence of one
man , against the wrong done it by another whom hee knowes to bee a
Villain . And this the more , in that upon inquiry I find his father to
bee a man of Substantiall Credit in proportion to his quality , as you
tell mee his Son alsoe is in reference to his . PEPYS,105.052.759

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore give him my very kind acknowledgements , with the letter
I inclose you to him , telling him that I have this day Spoken with Mr
Browne , who answer's his desires very readily and respectfully , and
seem's very desirous of seeing him here , that they might together
entertain one another with the Historys of that fellowes villanies ,
which hee tell's mee , they have been soe often witnesses of .
PEPYS,105.052.760

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As for Sir Elys Leyton , he is a person of such a fame , that though
his acquaintance with Scot could noe doubt inable him to inform <P_106>
mee much concerning him ; I am not very desirous of meddling with him ,
unless there were more need of it , then I hope there will be .
PEPYS,106.052.761

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But among other of Scot 's familiars , I find Dr Fitz-Gerald , <paren>
whom Mr Evelyn of Depthford , as you remember , recommended us to ,
when your poor Sister and we were in France </paren> is one ,
PEPYS,106.052.762

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and being a Catholick , I doe not know but he may bee able to give you
some light into the business of Scot 's Profession in Religion , if not
in other things ; PEPYS,106.052.763

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore I leave it to you , to find him out , or let it alone as
you see fit . PEPYS,106.052.764

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall by the next post provide some fresh Credits to Mr Trenchepain
for money , upon occasion of Monsieur Denise his Coming over to you ,
by whom I have addressed a letter of acknowledgment to him , and
another to Mr Pelletier , sending them both open , as I doe all the
rest , that you may peruse them before delivery . Among which is one to
Mr Savell without date , leaving it to you to give it that , when you
shall judge it expedient to be deliver'd . Which haveing said as to my
owne affaire , which I recommend to your diligence with a great
relyance upon that , and God 's Blessing for good success , I shall now
as to your owne let you know that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but still
think it very great improvidence to imbark your selfe into the Standing
Charge of bringing a Tutor for my Nephew from France <paren> which is
the uttermost Circumstance of Greatnesse that Sir John Bankes or any
man of 5 or +L per annum can enter upon </paren> before you can have a
more certain view of the Condition you may be in to beare it , then
under the present State of my affaires , I can give you .
PEPYS,106.052.765

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore , though I would not have you despair of my Godson 's
being kept in such a manner as that he may not loose the benefitt of
the Education you have hitherto endeavour'd to give him ; yet soe farr
I would have you to think of conforming your selfe for a Change in your
fortune Suitable to what I doe in mine , as not to proceed further at
present in the entertainment of a French Tutor , then to the finding
out and treating with one upon terms that may be to your satisfaction ,
and his , in Case your occasions shall within any certain time <paren>
to bee agreed by you </paren> invite you to send for him over after
your and the Child 's arrivall here . Which , with the assurance of my
faithfull respect and affection to you and to your family , is all at
present from Your truely affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR
PEPYS,106.052.766

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_052:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr. St Michell PEPYS,106.052.767

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_053> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_112>

{ED:90._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,112.053.768

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
October the 6th 1679 PEPYS,112.053.769

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , My last was of the 2d instant , in answer to your
{ED:s} of the 27th of September , to which haveing left nothing to bee
added but my hopes of it's giveing you full satisfaction in the
principall matter of it's Contents and haveing nothing yet from you
since that of the 27th all that I now have to give you is the notice of
my haveing taken care by this post , from the hand of my Worthy Friend
Mr Houblon , to provide you and Monsieur Denise fresh Credits with
Monsieur Trenchepain to the value of +L beyond what you have already
taken up of him , which shall be follow'd by more as the necessity of
my occasions shall require , and you advise mee of it .
PEPYS,112.053.770

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Hopeing that I shall not need to inculcate any thing of what I have
already soe often pressed you to , of good Husbandry , and advertiseing
mee from time to time of the Summs you are Supply'd with , the omission
whereof for the time past haveing been matter of some wonder to mee . I
doubt not but Monsieur Denise is e're this arrived Safe with you , and
that you are applying yourselves to the improveing the little remainder
of our time to the best advantage you can for the answering the
Severall particulars of inquiry which hee brought along with him , and
whereof I have sent you a Copy , with the addition of a point or 2 more
in my last . Your progress wherein I shall most gladly receive Some
account of from you , PEPYS,112.053.771

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and in the meane time give this onely note , vizt that the greatest
point to which most of my care is now reduced being <paren> as you may
observe in my 2 last </paren> the grounds you have given mee to hope it
will bee made to appeare that Scott was not at Paris in August 75 ,
PEPYS,112.053.772

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and being therefore willing to offer you all the Scruples that occur
<P_113> to mee against it , I would have you to observe , that whereas
Mr Joyne seemes to say , that the first and last time Scott ever ate or
drunk in Mr Pellissary 's house was in 76 , I doe find Scot and his
Consorts at Nevers in August , September , and October 1675
PEPYS,113.053.773

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and does at that time in one of his letters to Mr Joyne mention
Pellissary about his not paying of a bill for their use ; Soe that it
will bee adviseable that Mr Joyne doe recollect himselfe as
particularly as ever hee can by papers or otherwise in the Circumstance
of time through this whole affaire ; for as much as if this one point
could bee cleared at his and Sherwin 's Coming hither that Scot was not
indeed at Paris in August and beginning of September 1675 <paren> as
you seem to say those two Gentlemen are positive in </paren> it would
at once ease us of all further care , labours or expence in gathering
of other evidences from Soe many difrant parts of the World , as I am
now at the trouble and charge of . PEPYS,113.053.774

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore if the Sending an Express to Nevers it's selfe could
contribute any thing towards the Discovery and fixing of this Truth ,
Sir A D and I should thinke it disbursement very well made . Of which
pray bee very thoughtful together with Mr Denise , Mr Joyne , &ca .
PEPYS,113.053.775

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have againe satisfied myselfe by a 2d sight of Monsieur Trenchepain
's letter to Mr Houblon , that you can have noe reason to doubt of his
taking in any kinde ill from us our not makeing use of his Testimony in
England <paren> which I must confess I never from the beginning thought
a fitt thing for mee either-1 to desire or expect from a person of his
business </paren> that hee expresly takes notice to Mr Houblon with
very much respect towards mee it would be wholly impossible for him by
reason of his affaires to doe mee that Service in case mine Should call
for it , unless it were to bee dispatched by his being here at the
furthest by the instant . PEPYS,113.053.776

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe therefore perswade my Selfe that My Sending Mr Denise to prevent
that trouble of his can bee in noe wise misunderstood by him , I
haveing endeavour'd in what I wrote him by Mr Denise to let him know
how sensible I am of the interruptions I have already given him ,
without the addition of one which would bee greater then all , I mean
the calling him out of his Countrey at this Season of the yeare .
PEPYS,113.053.777

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am to repeate by you my thankes to Mr Joyne , PEPYS,113.053.778

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and though the frankness of his offer makes unnecessary as well as
other Considerations unsafe to propose any matter of invitation to him
to doe mee the justice hee seem's soe readily disposed to in this
affaire , yet you may as you see convenient let him understand that the
trouble this may occasion him will bee done for one that will bee very
sensible of his kindnesse in it , letting him know that Mr Browne is
very foreward in doeing mee the same justice , which hee does , both-6
by <P_114> himselfe , and those others whom hee has recommended to ,
whose testimonies , with what hee Shall bring along with him , will
abundantly Shew the World the qualifications of this Villain that has
attempted this wrong upon Sir A D and mee . PEPYS,114.053.779

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Let not this nevertheless Slacken the evidence I have desired you to
provide from Mme Pellissary 's family to bee ready to come over after
you , when there shall bee occasion . PEPYS,114.053.780

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thanke you for the further intelligence you putt mee in expectation
of from Mlle Des Moulins , as beeing in hopes of hearing of some more
of his Papers from her , Mr La Piogerie and others . PEPYS,114.053.781

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} yet come by a letter from My Lady Pratt to Mr
Foster , Shee being upon a sudden occasion gone into Wales ,
PEPYS,114.053.782

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But I hope to have it suddenly . PEPYS,114.053.783

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I understand that Foster knowes a great deale of this Fellow , it
being said that hee has upon some occasion or other heretofore writt
Scot 's life ; PEPYS,114.053.784

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but how farr this is true I know not , this being enough to mee , that
hee does confirme of his owne hearing , what Mr Joyne declares of Scot
's threatning to bee revenged of mee for accusing him of being a
Jesuite . PEPYS,114.053.785

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What remaines , is the informing you of my Sister 's health and her
family , and that I am Your truely affectionate brother to serve you S
P_NPR PEPYS,114.053.786

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_053:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,114.053.787

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_054> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_114>

{ED:91._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,114.054.788

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
October the 9th 1679 PEPYS,114.054.789

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother Balty , Your last was of the 27th of September which I answer'd
by mine of the 2d instant and another of the 6th without haveing any
from you these 2 last Posts . Soe that haveing nothing of yours upon my
hands to reply to , what I have now to say to you is in the 1st place
to tell you how much I was surprised to finde Sherwin come over without
any advice thereof from you . PEPYS,114.054.790

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Nevertheless his Comeing is very wellcome , I haveing been conducted to
him by Captain Browne , PEPYS,114.054.791

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and receiv'd very good Satisfactions from him in many particulars
though in the maine point of all wherein you seem soe assur'd in your
Answer to my doubtings concerning it , I finde those doubts of mine
were too reasonable , I meane , that of Scot 's being in Paris in
<P_115> the month of August and part of September 75 .
PEPYS,115.054.792

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For upon my conferring with those 2 Gentlemen , and Mr Harrison , and
Compareing their Discourse with the Dates and Contents of the Papers
you lately Sent mee from Mr Joyne , it appear's most cleare to them all
, that though Scott was at Nevers the 5th of August , yet hee came to
Paris very soone after , as by that very Letter of his of the 5th of
August hee said he should . PEPYS,115.054.793

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore by the way pray learne of mee this one Lesson , which on
this occasion I have Observed not onely you but others of Our Friends ,
not to have yet met with , vizt To bee most Slow to beleeve what we
most wish should bee true ; considering what the Consequences would
have been of such a mistake as this should we have gone along in it to
my Tryall , to the blemishing every other part of our Evidences ;
besides the generall and inward Shame that deservedly attend's the
Guilt of an Untruth . Which therefore I trust in God I shall never be
beholden to , though in the case of Life itselfe . PEPYS,115.054.794

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Sherwin tell's mee of the extraordinary diligence you have used
through this whole Affaire on my behalfe Which though I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} bee more sensible of then I was before his telling it mee
, yet I know not how to omitt the acknowledgeing it to you afresh ,
upon every fresh occasion I have of understanding it .
PEPYS,115.054.795

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And for your not adviseing mee of his Comeing , hee tells mee hee
endeavour'd to take his leave of you , PEPYS,115.054.796

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but not haveing the Fortune to meet with you hee presumes you might not
have heard of his being gone when you last wrote . PEPYS,115.054.797

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I finde Harrison a very sober sort of $fellow ; PEPYS,115.054.798

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and though upon the whole I doe discover that in their dealings one
with another there was none of the best Correspondents in their
business of Gunfounding , nor I doubt too much honesty , yet I finde
them all agree , that whatever the rest were to one another Scot was a
villaine to them all and to all the World , and are most ready to give
their honest assistance towards the Evidencing his being soe to mee as
being by many Circumstances satisfied that hee is soe .
PEPYS,115.054.799

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Here is alsoe Hastecote in towne , and Thomas Captain Browne 's man .
Soe that when Mr Joyne is here <paren> which I now much wish for , and
soe doe these poor men too </paren> I make noe doubt of haveing this
whole Fellowes wickedness made cleare , with the help of what else you
and Mr Denise shall come furnished with , praying that you will let noe
time bee lost in the gathering as much as you can , soe that I may have
you here by the 23th of this month or at least one of you together with
Mr Joyne in case you shall have any thing considerable to doe which
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee finished before that time .
PEPYS,115.054.800

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For though the terme begins that day , and consequently it will bee
convenient for <P_116> mee to bee possessed of as much of my Evidences
as {of}_P I can against that time , yet my Tryall $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} probably bee in less then a Week or dayes after that ;
PEPYS,116.054.801

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and soe if there bee a necessity for it , Either Mr Denise or you
<paren> as you shall agree between your selves </paren> may bee at
liberty to stay for the dispatching of any thing that shall bee behind
, and bringing over any persons that shall bee judged needful , besides
Mr Joyne and those which are already here . PEPYS,116.054.802

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray deliver my very humble services to Mr Denise , of whose safe
arrivall at Paris , together with the Papers of Matterialls hee carryed
with him I should be very glad to heare ; praying you to Communicate to
him what I here write , thereby to excuse mee of writting double .
PEPYS,116.054.803

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My last brought you fresh Credits from Mr Houblon to Mr Trenchepain ,
PEPYS,116.054.804

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I hope will come safe to you . PEPYS,116.054.805

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
One thing onely there is wherein I finde myselfe yet not fully clear'd
, namely , the degree of Scot 's acquaintance with Mr Pellissary and
his Family . PEPYS,116.054.806

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I finde by these People here , that by the meanes of La Piogerie ,
Scot was introduced to the knowledge of that Gentleman , and Mr Le Goux
, and was diverse times with him ; PEPYS,116.054.807

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but whether alwaies at his owne house I know not . PEPYS,116.054.808

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But Mr Joyne is the best able <paren> however he comes to mistake the
yeare 1676 for 75 </paren> to cleare the whole matter .
PEPYS,116.054.809

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore pray endeavour it while you are upon the Place .
PEPYS,116.054.810

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For it would look very oddly if these people here should allow of Scot
's haveing any familiarity with Mr Pellissary himselfe <paren> as some
of them , me thinks , seem to imply </paren> while Mr Pellissary 's
whole Family , and particularly the very Porter , deny their haveing
any knowledge of him . PEPYS,116.054.811

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And pray remember that any defect on our side in this point would touch
the very Essence of my Cause . Which with my repeating once more the
business of lookeing out for Papers of all sorts , is all at present
from Your very affectionate Brother and Servant S P_NPR
PEPYS,116.054.812

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_054:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,116.054.813

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_055> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_119>

{ED:93._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Westminster PEPYS,119.055.814

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
October the 16th 1679 PEPYS,119.055.815

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 13th , since which I have yours of the
11/12th , which finds mee in very good health , the last leaveing mee
under some indisposition . PEPYS,119.055.816

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My former have e're this <paren> I doubt not </paren> told you of
Sherwin 's being here , and very well disposed to doe mee right ,
though his Sickness will <paren> I feare </paren> bereave mee of any
benefit from his Evidence . PEPYS,119.055.817

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I finde Captain Browne a very good Witness of Mr Pellissary 's speaking
noe English , and Mr Harrison too . PEPYS,119.055.818

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Very sorry I am for the trouble you give yourselfe , though I doe
kindly thank you for it , towards the finding where Scott was the
middle or remainder of August and September 1675 - it being most
apparent , both-4 from Mr Harrison and Captain Browne , and Mr Joyne 's
owne Papers , that hee must bee at Paris the later end of August , or
else they are all confounded ; PEPYS,119.055.819

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and you may easily beleeve I should bee very glad they would prove soe
. PEPYS,119.055.820

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore , since you are gone soe farr into that Enquirie , pray
drive it as farr as you $can . PEPYS,119.055.821

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And yet if your Messenger bee not gone to Nevers about it , I am of
opinion the matter would bee cleared without it , when these Gentlemen
come to speake altogether here . PEPYS,119.055.822

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thank you for what you write mee of your Observations from Monsieur
La Pointe . PEPYS,119.055.823

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For the Account you give mee of the success of your applications to My
Lord Colbert , I must confess I am much less dissatisfied with it then
you seem to bee . PEPYS,119.055.824

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For bee it what it would I expect as much benefitt from it one way as
the other , PEPYS,119.055.825

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and doe not wish I had moved one moment sooner or made any one step in
it other then I have <P_120> done , or used any other hand .
PEPYS,120.055.826

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For I assure you I governed myselfe therein by a great many more
Considerations then I either have , or doe now think needfull or
expedient to bee putt downe in paper , and such as I think will render
the usage I receive from {ED:the} Court of France never a whit the less
usefull to mee , for it's being of noe use . PEPYS,120.055.827

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And in like manner for Sherwin , though it falls out very well that hee
is here ; yet by what I see of him , I had rather have been without his
Evidence , then by supplying him with the least summ of money to have
put it into anybody 's power , to say I bribed him for it .
PEPYS,120.055.828

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I forgat that in the Clause of your Letter you tell mee you have wrote
to Nevers . PEPYS,120.055.829

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The thing that remaines of most weight to bee done is the secureing one
or two of the properest Persons of Mme Pellissary 's Family to come
over , if we should have occasion to call for them , PEPYS,120.055.830

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and that I should think very severe to bee denyed . PEPYS,120.055.831

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore hope that Mr De Ruvigny <paren> whatever Mr De Seignelay
</paren> will not see mee want that Justice . PEPYS,120.055.832

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
However , God 's Will bee done . PEPYS,120.055.833

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As to the Marquise de Regny , shee does very readily accord to Our
desires , PEPYS,120.055.834

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and will not faile , to write to the purpose thereof by the next Post ,
to Mlle Des Moulins , whose Papers , in particular and all others that
you have or shall get are likely to bee Evidence , of as much use as
any in my Cause ; they saying a great deale , and leading us to the
knowledge of a great deale more . PEPYS,120.055.835

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore , pray bee instant in that particular PEPYS,120.055.836

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and me thinkes Monsieur Le Goux should bee furnished for the giveing
mee some Help therein . PEPYS,120.055.837

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I forbeare to write to Mr Denise , because in his Letter to mee of the
same date with yours , hee tell's mee of your purpose to send him back
immediately for England together with Mr Joyne , which agrees with what
you will finde of my desire therein in my last , PEPYS,120.055.838

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I thank you for it ; hopeing that he will bring some of the Papers
along with him , which you have lately mentioned your being possessed
of . PEPYS,120.055.839

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Lastly I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} possibly bee more sensible then I am ,
of the Condition of you and your Family ; PEPYS,120.055.840

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for next to the deliverance of my owne Person , I am concerned on your
and their behalfe , PEPYS,120.055.841

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and shall endeavour to express it , as soon as God Almighty shall
inable mee ; on whom , both you and I must depend . PEPYS,120.055.842

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I doubt not but his Mercy <P_121> will bee Equall to his Justice
towards us both . PEPYS,121.055.843

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as to the dischargeing , of my part towards you , you may relye
upon my imploying all my Interests towards your Good , soe soon as ever
God shall restore mee to a condition of imploying any for my owne .
Which , with the adviseing of the health of my Sister and her Family ,
is all at present from Your truely affectionate Brother to serve you S
P_NPR PEPYS,121.055.844

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_055:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,121.055.845

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_056> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_121>

{ED:94._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,121.056.846

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
October the 23th 1679 PEPYS,121.056.847

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , Your last to mee was of the 11th instant , which I answer'd
in mine of the 16th ditto . Since which I have received nothing from
you which I impute to the Crossness of the Winds which have hindred the
Comeing over of the Packetts by the two last Posts . PEPYS,121.056.848

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But wee doe hourely expect them , PEPYS,121.056.849

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and with them I hope to see here Monsieur Denise and Mr Joyne . Till
the arrivall of whom I have nothing remaineing upon my hands to give
you answer to , or any new advice in , saveing that of the inclosed
from Mme la Marquise de Regny to Mlle Des Moulins , wherein shee has
been pleased to send her desire to that Lady to put into your hands
what Papers shee has either under Scot 's hand or belonging to him that
may give any light into the Truth of his Story and Practices . In which
inclosed letter the Marquise does send her a Copy of a Promise I have
made under my hand to returne the said Papers safely to her soe soon as
the occasion is over , for which I desire them . PEPYS,121.056.850

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore bee carefull of them while they are in your hands , as I
alsoe shall bee after their comeing to mine . PEPYS,121.056.851

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
It remaines onely at present for mee to tell you that today being the
23th instant and the 1st day of the Terme Sir A D and I did make our
appearance in the Court of the King 's Bench , with hopes and
Expectation of haveing a Time sett for our Tryall . PEPYS,121.056.852

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But the Attorney Generall <paren> who is the King 's Councell in these
cases </paren> being lately removed , and noe other appointed to
succeed to his Place and <P_122> Business wee are and shall for some
time remaine in the Darke as to that Matter , PEPYS,122.056.853

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but shall make it our Business with all the industry {with}_P we can to
secure it , soe as that we may have an End of our troubles One way or
other before the End of the Terme , PEPYS,122.056.854

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I trust in God we shall bee fully prepared for it . Whereof hopeing
to bee able to say more to you by the next , I remaine Your truely
affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,122.056.855

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_056:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,122.056.856

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_057> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_122>

{ED:95._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
October the 1679 PEPYS,122.057.857

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , After long expectation I have yours of the 15th 22th and 25th
instant soe that in case you have received mine of {ED:the} 16th
wherein I mentioned my haveing yours of the 11th I doe presume you will
finde that I have not wanted any of yours saveing that of the of
September , which you mention but never yet came to my hands .
PEPYS,122.057.858

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore , pray recollect what it was , PEPYS,122.057.859

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and advise mee what there was of moment in it . PEPYS,122.057.860

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My last was of the 23th instant , since which through the Crossness of
the winds I have received together your said 3 of the 15th 22th and
25th and the satisfaction of Mr Denise 's safe and timely returne to
England , in Company with Mr Joyne , by whom I doe afresh understand
the greatness of your industry on my behalfe , and doe give you afresh
my faithfull thankes for it . PEPYS,122.057.861

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have had their Company this Day and made an Entrance into the Matters
wherein they severally come prepared to informe mee , PEPYS,122.057.862

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and shall from day to day make further advance in it , The multitude of
Particulars which I have at present upon my hands from other Parts of
the World , together with these from France , not permitting mee to doe
it all at once , nor indeed to give you at this Time full answers to
severall Points of these 3 letters of yours , PEPYS,122.057.863

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but am forced to restraine my selfe to 2 or 3 which call for present
answer , referring the rest to the next Post . PEPYS,122.057.864

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And in the 1st place therefore I am to tell you , that <paren> as I
feared </paren> I shall not have any Benefitt of Sherwin 's Evidence ,
hee dying yesterday , PEPYS,122.057.865

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and the truth is , had hee lived , I doe not see I should have had any
thing matteriall from him , in relation to my particular Case , <P_123>
though enough concerning Scot 's vilanies in general , which I have
sufficient witnesses of , though hee bee gone . PEPYS,123.057.866

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next you are to know , that Scott has been withdrawne out of sight and
heareing from ever since tomorrow will bee a moneth or 5 weekes <paren>
as I am informed </paren> and is not yet to bee heard of , otherwise
then As I have this day had some information of his beeing gone out of
England with the D of B , soe as for ought I know , hee may bee at this
time at Paris . Which gives mee noe paine at all , I beeing as little
fearfull of what hurt hee can doe mee there , as I would have you to
bee of what can befall you from the D of B . PEPYS,123.057.867

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
This onely inconvenience indeed I may suffer by it , namely the beeing
hindred of bringing our Business to a Tryall this Terme for want of
Evidence to accuse us , PEPYS,123.057.868

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and consequently doe not know when to foresee wee shall be able to
bring our Affaire to an End . PEPYS,123.057.869

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But we shall use all lawfull means to remove that Impediment , being
bound in the meane time to remaine slaves to Our Accusers , and under
an Endless expence in keeping of Our Witnesses together , which is very
grievous . PEPYS,123.057.870

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Inclosed you have a letter from Mr Denise , and in it one for Mr
Colbert , giveing him advice of the reports of Scot 's being at Paris .
PEPYS,123.057.871

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next I inclose you a letter from Sir A D to a kinsman of his and a
Gentleman of good Quality , Mr Henry Timpeny , who is of late become a
Benedictin Monck . Which we leave you to make use of as you see fitt ,
in order to the obtaineing <paren> if possible </paren> some Publick
Attestation from that Colledge , touching those Rogueries of Scot 's
which they have heretofore given you soe full an account of . Which
letter is left to you to seale , and deliver to him under the Title of
Mr Timpeny , or Father Timpeny , as upon Enquiry you shall finde it
proper . PEPYS,123.057.872

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
By this Time you will , I suppose , have an answer from Nevers , though
I must confess it does to mee seem very plain , from the Papers you
have sent mee , that hee was at Paris , between the and 25th of August
75 . PEPYS,123.057.873

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray faile not to sollicite Mlle Des Moulins and Mr Le Goux for what
Papers they have in their hands relateing to Colonel Scott , and
particularly that of the Originall Contract between the 4 Parties , and
what ever else can bee found of him , they being of very $great use .
PEPYS,123.057.874

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall not add any thing more this Time , PEPYS,123.057.875

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but praying you to expect the remainder by the next , rest Your truely
affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,123.057.876

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_057:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,123.057.877

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_058> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_126>

{ED:97._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,126.058.878

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
November the 6th 1679 S. V . PEPYS,126.058.879

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother My last was of the 3d instant in answer to yours of the 19th of
October . Since which haveing received nothing from you , nor any new
mater to give you from my selfe , this serves onely to desire your
takeing the first opportunity of Monsieur Le Goux 's Recovery to
obtaine from him what Papers of Scotts remained in his hands , and to
doe the like with Mlle Des Moulins for the Originall Contract of Scott
, letting mee know her answer about it , that in case Mme de <P_127>
Regny 's first Letter doe not prevaile I may indeavour to doe it by a
2d , our Councell telling us that it will bee very necessary for us to
see it here , PEPYS,127.058.880

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I have already engaged my selfe for the safe returne of it ,
PEPYS,127.058.881

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and shall see it done , without letting it once goe out of my owne
hands . PEPYS,127.058.882

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Upon discourseing afresh with Sir A D we doe thinke the Steward of Mme
Pellissary 's Family <paren> Monsieur Desaunays </paren> and the Porter
to bee the 2 fittest of the whole Family to come over as being able to
speake the fullest concerneing Scott 's not being in their House at all
the day of the entertainment , to which it might possibly bee desired
that we had Mr Pavillon or any other of the Gentlemen that were there ,
and can positively attest that neither Mr Pellissary nor Sir A D were
absent from the rest of the Company from the time of Sir A D 's Comeing
into the House to that of his Leaveing it . Which Sir A D does assure
mee is true ; PEPYS,127.058.883

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and being soe it is impossible Mr Pellissary should have the private
Discourse which is pretended , either with him or with Scott alone .
PEPYS,127.058.884

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have for some time omitted the mention of my humble Services to
Messrs Trenchepain and Pelletier , PEPYS,127.058.885

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I hope you doe of course supply it , PEPYS,127.058.886

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and desire you to doe it in particular to the later with my most
respectfull thankes for his last Letter by Monsieur Denise , which I
will speedily acknowledg under my owne hand , as Sir A D and I shall
both of us to Mr De Ruvigny for his . PEPYS,127.058.887

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Since my writting thus farr I have yours of the 1st:11th of November
wherein I am very glad to finde you soe secured of your haveing the
Generall Contract from Mlle Des Moulins , which I hope Mme de Regny 's
1st Letter will incline her to grant with the greater willingness .
PEPYS,127.058.888

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if shee does , I am not very desirous of your ventureing it by the
Post , PEPYS,127.058.889

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but rather chuse to reserve it for your owne bringing , sending mee a
Copy of it for my satisfaction in the meane Time . PEPYS,127.058.890

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Very glad I am to finde you designing the very same Persons to bee
brought over hither for Evidence , which we had ourselves proposed as
the most proper . PEPYS,127.058.891

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And very right you are in your observation that they are , and must bee
treated as Strangers . PEPYS,127.058.892

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Nor doe we expect to have it done otherwise : PEPYS,127.058.893

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But are at a perfect loss what to say to you at present by way of
direction towards their Comeing in regard that it is impossible for us
yet to foresee when we shall have our Tryall , or whether we shall have
it at all this Terme , of which there is but 3 weekes left and noe
indictment yet drawne against us , nor can bee till there bee Evidence
, which there is not at present by reason of Scot 's not appeareing .
PEPYS,127.058.894

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And less then 14 daies $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee allowed us for
notice to prepare for Our Tryall because of our Witnesses being to bee
fetcht from abroad . Soe that unless we can within a Week obtaine
<P_128> the appointment of a Time for Our Tryall , it will bee
impossible for us to have it this Terme , without running too great a
hazard of wanting some of our Chief witnesses . PEPYS,128.058.895

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And if not this Terme , which ends the 28th of this month we can expect
none till the next Terme , which begins not till the 23th of January ,
PEPYS,128.058.896

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and then shall we bee under the same uncertainty for the day , which
{under}_P we are now ; but with this Certainty <paren> which we have
not now </paren> of being Tryed that Terme or discharged . Soe that all
we can at present say touching these witnesses is to secure ourselves
as farr as we are able of haveing the Benefitt of their Evidence when
we shall need it within either this Terme or that and leave the Event
of it to God Almighty . PEPYS,128.058.897

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For more then this we know not what to propose , unless it were to
bring them over presently and keep them here till then , which I
presume would bee too much for us to aske , and more {ED:then} their
occasions <paren> and especially Monsieur Pavillon 's </paren> would
permit them to grant . PEPYS,128.058.898

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore we must leave it to you in this condition , to manage it as
well as you are able ; hopeing to bee able to say something to you
about it by the next . PEPYS,128.058.899

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Next I wish you could get an attestation from La Pointe conformable to
what hee declared to Mr Denise and Mr Joyne in your Company , touching
Scot 's acquaintance with Father Le Boue , and their workeing together
upon the Mapp of the Coasts of England , as alsoe touching the 2 Dutch
Charts which hee has belonging to Scott , from whence his Mapps were
made ; specifying the Time when this was done ; this being a very
usefull Testimony and such as I doe not know but it might bee worth the
Charge of bringing him over if hee would bee willing to come . Whereof
pray advise mee , but without comeing to any determination with him
concerneing it , till you have sent mee his Attestation and received my
advices thereupon . PEPYS,128.058.900

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
There is something alsoe which Mr Denise informes of a Porter of
Monsieur Gourville with whome Scott is said to have severall times left
some of his Maps in his Lodge . Which <paren> if true </paren> I would
bee glad you would examine into the Particulars of it as strictly as
you can , and gett it attested before a Public Notary and sent mee .
Which , with the assurance of the health of my Sister and her Little
ones , is all at present from Your truely affectionate Brother to serve
you S P_NPR PEPYS,128.058.901

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_058:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,128.058.902

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_059> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_132>

{ED:100._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London , PEPYS,132.059.903

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
November the 13e 1679 V. S . PEPYS,132.059.904

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the instant whereto referring you for other
Particulars , this comes principally in pursuance of my long Postscript
to that letter in answer to yours of the 5/15th ditto touching the
Gentlemen , which you were then expecting from Mme Pellissary , to tell
you that after all the pains taken that Sir A D and I could imploy for
the getting of a time appointed for our Tryall this Terme and as much
readiness expressed towards it by the King 's Attorney Generall as we
could with justice expect from him ; he has this day by Mr Hayes our
Sollicitor sent us this positive and finall answer That our Adversary
Scott not being to bee found , nor any other Person appearing before
him to this day to give in any Evidence against us &ca {ED:he}_NP-SBJ
is wholly unable to draw up soe much as {ED:an} Indictment , and
therefore much less in condition to undertake any thing in reference to
our Tryall . Soe that we are in noe wise to expect that any thing can
bee done in it this Terme . Which Declaration hee sends us in answer to
our request made to him by our Sollicitor , that hee would let us know
the certainty of what wee might depend upon concerning a Tryall , to
the end we might save this which would bee the last Post we could make
use of for the Summoning our Witnesses from France , <P_133> soe as to
have them here with any reasonable assurance within the Terme , which
ends the 28th instant . Which being soe , and that consequently the
next Terme beginning the 23th of January is the soonest <paren> if ever
</paren> that we shall have opportunity of makeing use of our Evidence
, I doe wholly concurr with you that it would bee in every other
respect unadviseable soe would it bee noe less undecent towards Mme
Pellissary and her Family and particularly to Monsieur Pavillon , for
us to put him , and the other Persons designed to accompany him , to
the trouble of an unseasonable and useless Journey into England . Which
being consider'd it remain's that this bee communicated to Mme
Pellissary and those Gentlemen in the most respectfull and speedy
manner that {in}_P we can ; to the end that by how much the more
satisfactorily they are eased of their present intended trouble they
may with the least difficulty bee prevailed with to embrace the same
againe in January , if we shall then have occasion for calling for it .
To which purpose Sir A D and I have jointly wrote to Mr De Ruvighy
askeing his kindness therein , which we send open for you to seale and
dispose of , after you have read and communicated it to our worthy
Friends , Monsieur Trenchepain and Mr Pelletier , to each of whom I
have also singly wrote to the same purpose ; praying you to conferr
with them , and take their advice in your Proceedings with Mr Pavillon
&ca for the putting a stop to their trouble of comeing into England ,
and acknowledgeing our great obligations to them for what they have
borne with their Comeing to Paris on our behalfs . Which Sir A D joynes
with mee in desireing and commissionateing you to see done , in the
best manner {in}_P you can to their Satisfaction , upon your adviseing
with our two said Friends , that soe they may have the less reluctancy
to doe us the same favour hereafter , which they now intended us .
PEPYS,133.059.905

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For though as the Proceedings of our Adversaries looke at this day , it
seems too probable that we shall not have an opportunity of justifying
ourselves to the World by a Publick Tryall , yet that is not soe to be
depended upon as that we ought to discharge ourselves of any part of
our Evidence , PEPYS,133.059.906

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore you are soe to leave these Gentlemen now , as if we were
certain of our haveing occasion of calling for their helpe againe
hereafter . PEPYS,133.059.907

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But in the doeing of this pray see , that the Civilityes that you shall
pay them on this occasion doe <P_134> not , upon any consideration ,
amount to ought that can beare the Construction of Bribery ,
PEPYS,134.059.908

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for as the Justice of our Cause needs noe such things , soe would it
bee exposed to the greatest injury in the World , should any such thing
bee , or have cause given of it's beeing but pretended .
PEPYS,134.059.909

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And as this Caution was earlily prest upon you by mee from the
beginning , soe I hope you have noe less strictly observ'd it , and
will to the end . Which haveing said , and referring you againe for
other matters to my last , Sir A D joynes with mee in recommending it
to you now to bee prepareing with all convenient speed for your returne
for England , PEPYS,134.059.910

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and with our kind acknowledgments of the Diligence and successfull
industry you have exprest on our behalfs through this whole Affaire ,
we remaine Your truely affectionate Friends and Servants
PEPYS,134.059.911

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
AD SP_NPR PEPYS,134.059.912

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_059:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,134.059.913

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_060> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_134>

{ED:101._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,134.060.914

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
November the 17th 1679 . PEPYS,134.060.915

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 13th instant . Since which I have this day
received together both of yours of the 8/18th 12/22th ditto , for which
I thanke you , PEPYS,134.060.916

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and doe in the 1st place referr you to my said last for answer to the
principall point now before us concerneing the Persons designed from
Mme Pellissary to come over for England , I being still of the minde ,
that not soe much for the charge of it <paren> though that is
considerable </paren> as for the indecency of giveing them fruitless
journey at this time of yeare into England , I think it by much the
best and most obligeing to them , to stop them . PEPYS,134.060.917

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For it is most certain that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} have any Tryall
this Terme , and noe less uncertain whether I shall have any in the
next , or ever any at all . PEPYS,134.060.918

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For though since my last Scott is said to have appeared in Towne , yet
from many considerations I am very fully perswaded that the Rascall
will not know how to furnish himselfe with any further Evidence then
what hee has ; But that therefore , though hee has vilany sufficient
yet hee has too much Craft and Cowardice to deare to stand a Tryall .
PEPYS,134.060.919

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore as to that Point pray pursue the advice contained in my last
wherein I communicated the same by particular Letters to Messieurs
<P_135> Trenchepain and Pelletier and refer'd you to their kind
assistance and Councell in the execution of it ; PEPYS,135.060.920

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and by hastning now from your returne expecting my positive and last
determination therein by the next . PEPYS,135.060.921

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As for my little Cosen your Daughter shee is <paren> I thank God
</paren> in a very good health againe and with the rest of your Family
very well , my Sister onely Excepted , who labours of the Disease of
the Season , which noe body at this time almost escapes , I meane a
great Cold but I hope will bee soon well ; Mrs Hewer and almost every
body in this family being in like condition . PEPYS,135.060.922

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am mightily bound to Mlle Desmoulins for her 2 new Papers you now
send mee , PEPYS,135.060.923

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and with a thousand acknowledgments of her favours in what shee has
done must necessarily beg her to bee pleased to accommodate mee with
the Originall Contract as being a thing that I would in noe wise bee
soe importunate with her for , were it not that my Councell tells mee
it will be one of the most important and essential evidences that I can
have in my Cause , and that which I shall bee most carefull in the safe
preserving and that just returneing of to her . PEPYS,135.060.924

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore bee as earnest with her as you can in it .
PEPYS,135.060.925

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall acquaint Sir A D with what you write touching his kinsman
Timpeny and advise you further concerning it in my next ; in the mean
time very well allowing of your Caution therein . PEPYS,135.060.926

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
It was my misfortune to have the Letter I wrote last post to Monsieur
Pelletier misse of his right delivery at the Post Office , by which
means it has lost a Post , PEPYS,135.060.927

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I pray your excuseing it to Mr Pelletier by this , it being
inclosed . PEPYS,135.060.928

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I thank you for what you observe of Mr Foster and Mr Gourville
PEPYS,135.060.929

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and am well satisfied with Mlle Desmoulins 's reserveing the Contract
just to your Comeing if you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} get it sooner .
PEPYS,135.060.930

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I am satisfied alsoe with what you write touching La Pointe and Mr
Gourville 's Porter . PEPYS,135.060.931

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have seen 2 letters of the 18th and 22th instant from Mr Trenchepain
to Mr Houblon , wherein hee speak's with very great care and kindness
for mee about the business of the French Gentlemen 's Coming over . For
which pray return him my most faithfull thanks , and acquaint him with
what I have now wrote you upon that subject , as being what I doe
conceive to bee in every respect best with regard to them as well as to
my selfe . PEPYS,135.060.932

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
As to the last point concerning your further supplyes of money I doe
not doubt your care of me in that respect suitable to what you shew mee
in every other , PEPYS,135.060.933

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore though I have a great deale <P_136> of reasons to bemoane
the ill fortune of my being prest to soe great an expence in this
affaire , yet relying upon your good husbandry therein , I have by this
Post given order for Credits for you by Mr Trenchepain for +L and if
the necessity of the business doe call for it , of +L more ,
PEPYS,136.060.934

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I intreat you againe to bee as thoughtfull on my behalfe in this
Point as you can , PEPYS,136.060.935

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and being in hopes , as I have already said to bee able to give you my
last instructions for your returne by the next post I bid you most
kindly farewell , PEPYS,136.060.936

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine Your truely affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR
PEPYS,136.060.937

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_060:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,136.060.938

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_061> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_137>

{ED:103._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,137.061.939

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
November the 27th 1679 PEPYS,137.061.940

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 24th instant . Since which I have yours of
the 19/29th ditto , with another of the same date from my most Worthy
Friend Monsieur Trenchepain , which I doe acknowledge carry soe much
consideration in them , grounded upon that of your haveing now none to
come over but Monsieur Druillet and the Porter , that I doe perfectly
concurr with Monsieur Trenchepain and you in the haveing of those 2
come over along with you without longer stay , in case we shall
tomorrow <paren> which is the last day of the Terme </paren> have any
prospect given us of a Tryall to bee had the next Terme , or ever at
all . PEPYS,137.061.941

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For unlesse more Evidence does come in against us , then has yet
appeared we can never hope for a Tryall , PEPYS,137.061.942

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and as the publick state of things is , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
promise myselfe that Our Judges will ever discharge us without a Tryall
. PEPYS,137.061.943

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But of this we shall be able , I hope , to make some tolerable
judgement , soe as to understand what we may reasonably depend upon ,
and consequently send you our last and positive Directions by the very
next Post . PEPYS,137.061.944

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And till then I am not in condition of saying more , then that if ever
we shall have a Tryall it will bee in the next Terme , and if we can
bee assured of it then , we <P_138> shall give you our advice <paren>
as I have said before </paren> for your present bringing over of these
two persons with you . PEPYS,138.061.945

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
That therefore being all that I can offer you upon {ED:the} Subject ,
and haveing many things to take care for against my appeareing in Court
tomorrow , I will pray you to excuse to Monsieur Trenchepain my not
answering his till the next , assureing him of my most gratefull
resentments of his kindnesse to mee and intreat him to assist you in
your keeping these two persons under a suspense as to their comeing or
not comeing over into England till you have what I now promise you by
the next , it being matter of much trouble to mee to finde with what
difficulty they are to bee brought to consent to their Comeing .
PEPYS,138.061.946

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And I pray to God , that the Cause of these poor Men 's feare to come
into England may not bee attended with as much reall danger to those of
our Countrey-men who shall have occasion of goeing abroad , it seeming
therefore to mee not unreasonable that these Persons have the
satisfaction they desire for their being safe while they are here .
PEPYS,138.061.947

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I wish with all my heart that you were once possessed of the Originall
Contract from Mlle Des Moulins . Which being all that my present time
will allow mee to say , saveing that my Sister and her Family Continue
in good health , I remayne Your very affectionate Brother and Servant S
P_NPR PEPYS,138.061.948

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall answer this your last Letter more amply by the next , and
particularly in writting to Mlle Des Moulins , whose letter is
deliver'd to Mme La Marquise . PEPYS,138.061.949

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_061:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St. Michell PEPYS,138.061.950

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_062> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_138>

{ED:104._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,138.062.951

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
December 1st 1679 PEPYS,138.062.952

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 27th of November , since which I have
yours of the 26th ditto with another of the same date from Monsieur
Pelletier . Whereto I am to give you this in Answer , that our Terme is
now over , and soe farr from giveing us an opportunity of Tryall , as
that noe Evidence at all <paren> though Scott bee in town </paren>
offer'd to appeare against us in Court ; nor any intimation that any ,
unless it bee Scott , is ever likely to appeare . PEPYS,138.062.953

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And yet such is the Law of England , <P_139> that we $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} obtaine a Discharge presently , but are constrained to
waite for another Terme , and that , without any assurance of any
Tryall then . Soe that in one word , we are yet as much to seek what to
say concerning the bringing over of the 2 Persons you last mentioned ,
as ever we were , and consequently $can $not {TEXT:cannot} tell what to
advise you about it ; especially considering the unwillingnesse which
they have to come , according to Monsieur Peletyer 's Account in his
Letter Which would render their comeing much more uneasy to them , in
case at their comeing they should finde the Journey imposed upon them
to noe purpose . Which in my private judgment I am apt to beleeve they
would , PEPYS,139.062.954

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I am thoroughly afraid we shall never have the opportunity of
clearing ourselves by a Publick Tryall ; though I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} nevertheless soe depend upon it , as to lay aside the
care of my Witnesses . PEPYS,139.062.955

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
We shall therefore bee forced to waite yet another Post , to see
whether we can by any means come to some clearer prospect of our
Business ; which we are daily useing means to obtaine ,
PEPYS,139.062.956

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and by that time Mr Joyne will I presume bee in readiness to returne
home , and with our Letters , bring you the result of all our
deliberations in this matter , PEPYS,139.062.957

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And to them therefore referring you , I in the mean time send my most
humble Services and thankes to Messieurs Trenchepain and Peletyer , to
whom I shall then give the trouble of Letters alsoe . PEPYS,139.062.958

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I shall alsoe at the same time return my most humble thankes to Mlle
Des Moulins for that which I have now by your hand received from her ,
and which I hope will answer my occasions , without the Originall .
PEPYS,139.062.959

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
What I have to add is , that I thank God my sister St Michell is in
perfect good health againe with her whole Family , and that I am Your
truely affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR PEPYS,139.062.960

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_062:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michel PEPYS,139.062.961

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_063> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_141>

{ED:106._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,141.063.962

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
December the 15th 1679 . PEPYS,141.063.963

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 8th instant wherein I told you of my
haveing received none of yours since that of the 26th of November
PEPYS,141.063.964

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but have lately had one of the 6th:16th instant , for which I kindly
thank you and particularly for the satisfaction it brings mee about the
two Persons who are to come over . Concerning which I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} yet for my Life obtaine information enough to direct mee
what to advise ; PEPYS,141.063.965

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
nor has Mr Joyne had yet opportunity of performing all that remains
upon his hands to bee done here ; though hee had bespoken a place in
the Dover-Coach to have gone hence this day being Monday .
PEPYS,141.063.966

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But I doubt not but hee will bee able to depart hence on Thursday next
, PEPYS,141.063.967

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I hope by him to be better prepared to send some finall Resolutions
concerning those Gentlemen . PEPYS,141.063.968

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
The Duke of Buckingham is not yet returned into England but said to bee
still in France . PEPYS,141.063.969

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe thorowly agree with you , in it's being much better to have those
2 Persons come over of their owne good will , then otherwise .
PEPYS,141.063.970

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And therefore doe take notice of your care in that Particular .
PEPYS,141.063.971

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I doe not blame your takeing soe heavily your haveing noe more
intelligence from England . PEPYS,141.063.972

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But you would doe it less , if you knew how little any man 's head here
is at leasure to write or doe more then just their owne business
requires from them ; PEPYS,141.063.973

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I speake now , of your Friends and mine . PEPYS,141.063.974

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For they have all their loads , though they doe not tell you of it ;
and some of them such as they must inevitably sink under .
PEPYS,141.063.975

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Therefore pray spare your opinion of them , PEPYS,141.063.976

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and bee assured , that were there any thing extraordinary for you to
bee informed of <P_142> in relation to your owne concernments , I would
doe it myselfe , or at least take care to have it done by another hand
. PEPYS,142.063.977

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Sister and your Family I thank God is very well , PEPYS,142.063.978

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and I hope a little time will put an end to this troublesome Affaire ,
that you may see them and your Friends with some satisfaction here
againe . PEPYS,142.063.979

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time hopeing in God that you have taken care above all
things to observe my caution to you against doeing any thing that might
bee interpreted bribeing , or makeing of promises to any Persons from
whom you have indeavour'd to gather informations , and particularly
Foster and Dailie` , I haveing heard that Scott has had the confidence
to assert some thing very positively of that kind , in relation to
those 2 men <paren> which as I had rather my Cause should perish , then
you should bee guilty of , soe I perswade myselfe you would choose
alsoe </paren> I remaine Your truely affectionate Brother and Servant S
P_NPR PEPYS,142.063.980

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_063:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michel PEPYS,142.063.981

<Q_PEP_C_1679_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_064> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_142>

{ED:107._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,142.064.982

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
December the 18th 1679 . PEPYS,142.064.983

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , My last was of the 15th instant , since which I have yours of
the 13th ditto , and am intirely at a loss what answer to give you to
it . PEPYS,142.064.984

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For as to the charge of bringing those 2 persons over , it is soe farr
from haveing any weight with mee at this time <paren> the Terme being
now soe near againe </paren> that the first thing that I not onely
would , but ought to doe should bee to desire your comeing away
forthwith to England and bringing those Gentlemen with you , had I the
least ground to hope for my haveing a Tryall when they come <paren>
which I must confess I doe now wholly dispair of ever haveing , our
Parliament being prorogued till November next </paren> or were sure
that Monsieur de Ruvigny would not think a much greater slight to him
to bee put to the trouble to get these People to come over and finde
nothing to doe when they come , my doubtfulness in which puts mee under
an uncertainty what would bee best for mee to doe . PEPYS,142.064.985

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For rather then <P_143> give offence to Monsieur De Ruvigny Sir A D and
I would have {ED:them}_NP-SBJ come , whatever the Charge were though it
was for noe other use , then to have the seeing and proveing the
Good-will and Justice of Strangers , in reproach to what we meet with
of the contrary {TEXT:in} both from our owne Countrey-men and of our
owne Protestant Profession . PEPYS,143.064.986

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And it is onely from the want of Sir A D 's Company at this present to
give mee his personall Concurrence therein , that I doe not now send
you peremptory Directions , to let them know positively that they are
to come , PEPYS,143.064.987

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I perswade myselfe that unlesse I doe in the mean time receive
something from you to hinder it you will receive such Order from us by
the very next Post . PEPYS,143.064.988

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And in confidence of that , I have taken upon Mee to stop Mr Joyne 's
Comeing away by this Packett ; PEPYS,143.064.989

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for if they come , I would not have him absent . PEPYS,143.064.990

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But of this , you shall not need to take notice to his family ,
PEPYS,143.064.991

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for I have not yet fully acquainted him with my intentions herein .
PEPYS,143.064.992

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I hope you have 'ere this consider'd what Pretence <paren> if any
</paren> Foster can have for the Discourse which I mentioned to you in
mine of the 8th , and whether hee bee such a villain as to invent soe
devillish an untruth , as my Confidence in your better integrity and
Prudence assures mee that to bee ; or to deny to give you something
under his hand to his kinsman Sir Timothy Tirrell or some other Friend
to vindicate himselfe against soe reproachfull a lye as some body has
father'd upon him . PEPYS,143.064.993

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But I must confess that I doe rather suspect that hee who values not
the Truth in one thing will make very little difficulty to abuse it in
another ; as you will finde hee has done , in the Answer hee has lately
given to the Letter sometime since wrote him by Sir T. Tirrell , a Copy
of which Answer I doe here enclose you , leaveing it to your Prudence
to make such use of it as <paren> if possible </paren> we may learne
the very Truth of this Matter . PEPYS,143.064.994

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And that you may know who it was that this Intelligence came from out
of France , which I gave you in mine of the 8th I have had the Good
fortune to understand that it was wrote by that Person whom <paren> not
to name his Name </paren> you told mee in yours of the 4/14th of
October you wished to bee with mee , in company with Langley , as
haveing been employed in writeing upon the last great Chart .
PEPYS,143.064.995

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
This I have from the Discourse of him that is best able to tell ,
PEPYS,143.064.996

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore doe recommend it to you to make the same use of it as of
the former . PEPYS,143.064.997

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But this brings it into my mind to aske <paren> if I never did it
before </paren> whether it might not bee of moment to have an
Attestation of that Langley before a Notary , and to desire you to get
it if it bee to bee had . PEPYS,143.064.998

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I likewise pray you to looke out for and bring over with you a Book or
2 if you can find them , viz one called La Police de la Mer , anothor
upon the same Subject , respecting the Sea and Navigation writ by
<P_144> one Hobier , and any other you can finde relateing to the same
Matters , as I am told there are Severall . PEPYS,144.064.999

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
There is alsoe another Book called L'Admiral de France printed , as I
take it , about or years agoe , which I would bee glad to have .
PEPYS,144.064.1000

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But if they bee bound up in Leather Covers , you must tear the Covers
off PEPYS,144.064.1001

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
or they will {ED:be}_BE in danger of being forfeited .
PEPYS,144.064.1002

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I wish we could hear something of Captain La Piogeries Papers before
you come away . PEPYS,144.064.1003

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And {ED:one} thing more <paren> while I think of it </paren> were to
bee wished that if Madam Pellissary had any Friend here in England that
shee does or could write to shee might bee prevailed with to write a
few Lines to that Person <paren> Man or Woman </paren> signifying
something to the Purpose of her former Attestation and her sending over
these two Persons upon this occasion , nameing their Names , and the
relation they had to her Husband 's Service in the year 1675 . By which
alsoe somebody will bee here a Liveing Witness to attest her Hand ,
besides Monsieur Druillet who I presume knowes it . PEPYS,144.064.1004

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And this seems the more necessary for her to doe , as being a
Protestant , since both these Servants of her late Husband 's prove to
bee Catholicks . Which and referring you for more to my next is all at
present from Your truely affectionate Brother to serve you S P_NPR
PEPYS,144.064.1005

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Sister and your Family <paren> blessed bee God </paren> are all well
. PEPYS,144.064.1006

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:46
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_064:E3:1679:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michel PEPYS,144.064.1007

<Q_PEP_C_1680_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_065> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_145>

{ED:109._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
January 5th PEPYS,145.065.1008

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , Hopeing you have received mine of the 1st instant owneing the
receit of yours of the 24th of December this comes to give you Sir A D
's and my finall Determinations for your Disposeing of your matters now
for your returne into England and bringing with you the 2 French
Witnesses you have now with you , and ordering it soe , as to bee here
as near as you can about the last of this month English Stile . Not
that I can foresee or hope we shall bee able to obtaine any Tryall , by
which their comeing might bee render'd usefull to us , but principally
to prevent the dissatisfaction which you seem apprehensive might bee
taken by those Persons to whom soe much trouble has on our occasion
been given in case we should seem to neglect their kindness therein by
our not sending for these Witnesses over . To which may indeed bee
added the Consideration of the Lowness of their quality , and
consequently the less charge to bee contracted by their comeing ,
whether we have any occasion to make use of them here or not .
PEPYS,145.065.1009

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Pray therefore bee prepareing for your and their Comeing accordingly ,
PEPYS,145.065.1010

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and expect what I may have further to say to you in any Particular
about it , by the next post . PEPYS,145.065.1011

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
In the mean time I would desire you to remember to finish any thing
that remaines yet to bee done ; as particularly , that which I sometime
since mentioned to you about Searching the Bureau d'Adresse enquireing
after Monsieur Piogery 's Papers , and buying the Bookes I named to you
, and what <paren> if anything </paren> else you can recollect .
PEPYS,145.065.1012

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And since Mr Foster has cleared himselfe to you under his hand <paren>
which I could wish hee would doe to the like Effect by a Line <P_146>
or 2 to Sir T Tirrell </paren> I could bee well contented you would by
his hand <paren> unless you could think of a better </paren> endeavour
to finde out whether Dallie` will deny it too . PEPYS,146.065.1013

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
For the Report is said by Scott to have been sent by one Dallie` hither
to one Willson to bee by him communicated to Scott <paren> as I take it
</paren> about September , last , though I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} bee
perfect in the time . To which I am to add , that Dallie` did not write
to Willson in true , but fained , Names ; Scott in particular being
called by the Name of Artabane . Of all which you may communicate to
Foster as much or as little as you shall in your Discretion thinke fit
, and noe more . PEPYS,146.065.1014

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
But indeed I am for findeing out the Truth , as haveing an imagination
, that even Dallie` in this Matter has been abused as well as Foster .
PEPYS,146.065.1015

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
And Foster may have reason enough to enquire after it in his owne
Vindication as haveing been reported by Dallie` to have told him that
hee had had such an offer made him by you . PEPYS,146.065.1016

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Soe referring you for more to my next , I remaine Your &ca S P_NPR
PEPYS,146.065.1017

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
My Sister and her Family are well , and Mr Joyne who send's you his
service , and did by the last a letter to you , and another to his Wife
. PEPYS,146.065.1018

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_065:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michell PEPYS,146.065.1019

<Q_PEP_A_1680_FO_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_066> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_1633> <R_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_146>

{ED:110._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_B._ST._MICHEL}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
London PEPYS,146.066.1020

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
January 8 : PEPYS,146.066.1021

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Brother , The inclosed was what should have come to you by the last
Post , but for the misfortune of it's comeing halfe an houre too late
to the Post-house . PEPYS,146.066.1022

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
But the Contents of it is such as will suffer noe great prejudice by
the losse of 2 days , PEPYS,146.066.1023

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore referring you to it for information in what Sir A D and I
have at last determined on touching your Comeing Over and bringing
Monsieur Druillet and Le Picard with you I shall onely repeat what I
therein said in relation to the time by which we desire we may see you
with them here , which is by the last of this Month English Stile .
PEPYS,146.066.1024

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The reason of our choice of which Time is that our Terme beginning here
the 23th of this month , and ending the 12 of February <paren> which
wants a day of 3 Weekes </paren> if you bee not here by that time ,
vizt. the 31th instant , we may run some hazard of wanting you , in
case we should have the good fortune of obtaineing a Tryall this Terme
; which though we <P_147> have little hopes of , yet it is not
impossible , PEPYS,147.066.1025

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore since you doe bring over those Gentlemen we would have
them here soe , as not to want their Evidence , if we should have
occasion to make use of it . Soe that if you can save any of these
dayes which we have given you , it were soe much the better ,
PEPYS,147.066.1026

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and pray endeavour it , PEPYS,147.066.1027

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and expect the last that I shall write to you into France by the next
Post , by which I shall send you my Letters of acknowledgments to
Monsieur Trenchepain , Monsieur Pelletier and others of our Friends at
Paris , as presumeing that by that time , you will have disposed of
your Affairs , soe as to bee near your departure thence ;
PEPYS,147.066.1028

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I haveing nothing more of business from this moment that I design to
trouble you with , and therefore will pray you to loose noe time in
further Expectation of any from mee after you are ready to come away .
PEPYS,147.066.1029

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
This onely upon a late discourse with Mr Denise I must committ to your
care , which you will finde in one inclosed from him to Monsieur Le
Comte d'Estre`e and another to your selfe relateing to Scott 's haveing
offer'd to sell some Maps to the said Comte for the use of the K. of
France , Mr Joyne confirmeing to mee that the thing is true , and
another English Gentleman being here that can witness it .
PEPYS,147.066.1030

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
The matter I shall not need to repeat PEPYS,147.066.1031

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but referr you to his said Letters for it . PEPYS,147.066.1032

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
What I have to add is to advise you that if you doe meane to make any
attempt <paren> either by Foster or otherwise </paren> upon Dallie` ,
to discover the truth of what I lately acquainted you with , of Scott
's reports touching you , and that you have not already done it , you
will doe well to make it one of the last things you doe before your
Comeing away , and soe <paren> if it might bee </paren> as that Dallie`
might not understand that the Enquiry Comes from you .
PEPYS,147.066.1033

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
For if indeed hee does hold any correspondence with Scott , hee that
has already had the villany to write one untruth <paren> and soe bold a
one </paren> concerning you , will not omitt any occasion of inventing
another . Which leaveing with you , it being now alsoe very late , I
remaine Your &ca S P_NPR PEPYS,147.066.1034

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My Sister and family are all well . PEPYS,147.066.1035

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Mr Joyne allsoe salutes you , PEPYS,147.066.1036

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and by the enclosed proposes to you one Enquiry more which may bee very
usefull about the Count Monbas PEPYS,147.066.1037

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
RECIPIENT:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_066:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To Mr St Michel PEPYS,147.066.1038

<Q_PEP_C_1680_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_067> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_SON> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_PEPYS_SR> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_FATHER> <R-DOB_1601>

<P_155>

{ED:117._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_JOHN_PEPYS_SENIOR}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
York Buildings . PEPYS,155.067.1039

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
March 27th , . PEPYS,155.067.1040

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , It is long since I have express'd my Duty to you ,
PEPYS,155.067.1041

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and truely every day has follow'd one another with some new occasion of
care , soe as that though I have been in a great measure restor'd to
the Liberty of my Person , my Minde has continued still in Thraldome ,
till now that it has pleased God in a miraculous manner to begin the
Worke of my Vindication , by laying his hand upon James my Buttler by a
Sickness whereof hee is some days since dead , which led him to
consider and Repent of the wrongs hee had done mee in his Accuseing mee
in Parliament , which hee has solemnly and publickly confess'd upon
<P_156> the holy Sacrament to the justifying of mee and my Family to
all the World in that part of my Accusation which relates to Religion ,
PEPYS,156.067.1042

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I question not but God Almighty will bee noe less just to mee , in
what concern's the rest of my Charge , which hee knowes to bee noe less
false then this . PEPYS,156.067.1043

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the mean time His Holy Name bee praised for what hee has done in
this Particular . PEPYS,156.067.1044

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
What I have to add is the letting you know that I am commanded to
attend the King the next week at New Market and by the Grace of God
will goe and waite on you one day in my goeing or Returne ; which I
presume will bee either Tuesday or Saturday next , I designing to sett
forth hence on Monday , and shall rather chuse to call upon you in my
Goeing <paren> which will bee on Tuesday </paren> for feare least I
should bee commanded to accompany the Court to London , where the King
design's to bee this day Sevennights . PEPYS,156.067.1045

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the mean time trusting in God to find you in good health , and with
my most humble Duty presented to your Selfe , and my kind Love to my
Brother and Sister , and their Family I remaine Sir Your ever obedient
Son S P_NPR PEPYS,156.067.1046

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:SON:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_PEPYS_SR:MALE:FATHER:1601:79
LETTER:PEPYS_067:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To Mr Pepys of Bramton PEPYS,156.067.1047

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_068> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_157>

{ED:119._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eynesbury PEPYS,157.068.1048

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
May PEPYS,157.068.1049

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I give you many thanks for your great kindnesse to me at London ,
PEPYS,157.068.1050

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have bin at Brampton PEPYS,157.068.1051

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the old Gentleman and the rest of the Family have good health ,
PEPYS,157.068.1052

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and fewer complaints were made then I have bin accustomed to hear from
them , PEPYS,157.068.1053

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I heartily wish that you also may have lesse trouble in that kind ,
PEPYS,157.068.1054

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
your Father thanks you for the care of his Watch , PEPYS,157.068.1055

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir you may now iustly expect from me the promised account of Sixtus
5tus Bible which I have travailed in , PEPYS,157.068.1056

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but instead of answering your expectation , I am necessitated to
request a troublesome favour of you which is that you will please to
let some of your servants pack up that Bible in a box or case and send
it to Mr Joseph Came at the Rose in St Laureance Lane to be sent to me
, PEPYS,157.068.1057

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he is my son in Law PEPYS,157.068.1058

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and will be very carefull of my concerns PEPYS,157.068.1059

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I beseech you deny not this my earnest request , PEPYS,157.068.1060

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doe promise the book shall in a little time be sent back
PEPYS,157.068.1061

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with it you shall have an account whither this be truly the Bible
of Sixtus 5tus or of Clemens Octavus what makes that of Sixtus quintus
of so great value and what advantage we make by it against the
Romanists PEPYS,157.068.1062

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir you may easily think that I make not this request for my owne sake
or to shew <P_158> any skill that I have to make such iudgment ,
PEPYS,158.068.1063

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I am desired to doe it by a person for whome I have great reverence
, PEPYS,158.068.1064

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and foreseeing no inconveniencie can ensue from it , I have spoken
confidently that this request would be graunted me PEPYS,158.068.1065

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I once more humbly beseech you to graunt it , PEPYS,158.068.1066

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I hope in god to wait on you at London next October and give you a
particular account of all circumstances about this matter ,
PEPYS,158.068.1067

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I pray God graunt you health and peace PEPYS,158.068.1068

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Your most affectionate and humble servant John Turner
PEPYS,158.068.1069

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_068:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuell Pepys Esquire , at Mr Hewers house in York-buildings in the
strand . PEPYS,158.068.1070

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_069> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_158>

{ED:120._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eynesbury PEPYS,158.069.1071

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
June PEPYS,158.069.1072

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir On Teusday last I waited on Sir Nicholas Pedley to your Fathers
house where we sealed new writings so setling Mr Jacksons land on his
wife and children that $'t $is {TEXT:tis} not in his power to make any
alteration , PEPYS,158.069.1073

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if they dye without Issue the inheritance to the survivor and their
heires , PEPYS,158.069.1074

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir the old Gentleman desires you will please to consider the inclosed
and if you think Fitt to doe anything about the settlement then some
afternoon to call at Sir Nicholas Pedleys chamber in Lincolns Inn ,
PEPYS,158.069.1075

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Whenever you shall come to Brampton I hope {ED:you}_NP-SBJ will find
matters there more easy then last time , though not so wise or happy as
we desire , PEPYS,158.069.1076

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have all their writings of settlement in my keeping till there be an
opportunity of delivering them into your custody . PEPYS,158.069.1077

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I again renew my earnest request that you will please to lett your
Sixtus 5tus Bible be sent to me , PEPYS,158.069.1078

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for that which occasions my desiring it is again renewed to me
PEPYS,158.069.1079

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I could not but say that my friend whose the book was had not
denyed my request , PEPYS,158.069.1080

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir you may be assured of its safe and very speedy return
PEPYS,158.069.1081

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Your most obliged and humble servant John Turner PEPYS,158.069.1082

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_069:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuel Pepys Esquire , at Mr Hewers in York buildings in the Strand
PEPYS,158.069.1083

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_070> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_159>

{ED:121._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eynesbury PEPYS,159.070.1084

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
June 21 PEPYS,159.070.1085

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I received your Sixtus quintus very safe PEPYS,159.070.1086

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have sent it where it must receive sentence , PEPYS,159.070.1087

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I am very much obliged to you for this favour PEPYS,159.070.1088

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when I tell you all the circumstances about it I dare say you will
be very well pleased with graunting my importunate request , espetially
when the book is safely returned which I will take care it shall be in
a very short time , PEPYS,159.070.1089

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Mr Jackson is now with me PEPYS,159.070.1090

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and saith your Father and sister have both good health and that they
are very peacable at home and like to continue so PEPYS,159.070.1091

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I doe believe him PEPYS,159.070.1092

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for when I was last there I found things much better then formerly ,
PEPYS,159.070.1093

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
some of his debts begin now to be called for PEPYS,159.070.1094

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for the payment of them all he must presently sell his copy hold
land which is yet unsetled PEPYS,159.070.1095

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he tells me he is offered +L for it PEPYS,159.070.1096

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
your sister hath a great desire that you would please to buy it ,
PEPYS,159.070.1097

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they all desire that you will please to let them know whither you
will or not , PEPYS,159.070.1098

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for if you like not to purchase it he must speedily dispose of it to
some other chapman , PEPYS,159.070.1099

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I hope you will see Brampton shortly and find things there much
more to your content then you did the last time . PEPYS,159.070.1100

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Your most affectionate and obliged servant John Turner
PEPYS,159.070.1101

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_070:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuell Pepys Esquire , at Mr Hewers house in York-buildings in the
Strand PEPYS,159.070.1102

<Q_PEP_C_1680_T_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_071> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_TURNER> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_159>

{ED:122._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_DR._JOHN_TURNER}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
August the 4th PEPYS,159.071.1103

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Sir I doe truely acknowledge my selfe ashamed of my haveing noe sooner
thanked you for your last Favour . PEPYS,159.071.1104

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
But the truth is , the occasion of your trouble <paren> I mean in
reference to Brampton {ED:Brampton_IN_SHORTHAND} </paren> is soe
unpleasant to mee in the very contemplation , that for my owne quiet I
suppress what I can the memory of it , and soe am with much difficulty
able to bring myselfe to admit the care of it into my owne <P_160>
thoughts , and ought therefore much less to express any forwardness in
makeing it the occasion of trouble to any other . PEPYS,160.071.1105

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Nevertheless my Father hath soe pressed me to doe something in it
towards the reliefe of my sister and her children
{ED:my_sister_children_IN_SHORTHAND} , as the only thing that can give
him quiet , that I am contented to listen to my Sister 's Desire of my
secureing the Land of her Husband 's at Ellington , and provided that
my doeing it may bee effected without exposeing my selfe to any Loss ,
by not haveing a penny-worth for a penny </paren> I will <paren>
contrary to what I had resolved to doe </paren> buy it .
PEPYS,160.071.1106

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
But then I tell my Sister too , that as I will expect to have it done
without losse to myselfe as before ; Soe I will have her satisfy mee ,
by doeing it to you , that this will put her and him out of debts
{ED:debts_IN_SHORTHAND} , and her into a Security against any further
new difficulties that his folly or ill-husbandry can contract upon her
{ED:her_IN_SHORTHAND} . PEPYS,160.071.1107

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Now , Sir , I doe make it my earnest request that you will bee pleas'd
to take the trouble of receiveing from my sister what Satisfaction she
{ED:sister_she_IN_SHORTHAND} can give you in this Matter .
PEPYS,160.071.1108

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
For I would not give my selfe any further care about it if what each
now desires of mee be only to stop a present gap
{ED:each_stop_gap_IN_SHORTHAND} , and have the same thing or more come
with a Rebound upon me again {ED:me_again_IN_SHORTHAND} a year or two
hence ; it being a thing that I should much better like to know the
worse of it now , PEPYS,160.071.1109

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
and will bee never a whit better for them to keep for mee to hear of
hereafter . PEPYS,160.071.1110

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
For the Opinion I have of his {ED:his_IN_SHORTHAND} incorrigibleness
makes me I confess fear some such Designe , he not seeming to mee to
bee made of stuff capable of any amendment
{ED:he_stuff_amendment_IN_SHORTHAND} , PEPYS,160.071.1111

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
and I can well satisfy my selfe <paren> I thanke God </paren> that I
have already done too much , to have any more flung away upon him
{ED:him_IN_SHORTHAND} . PEPYS,160.071.1112

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
This , Sir , is my Prayer to you , and this the truth of my
apprehensions Wherein nevertheless I should be most glad to understand
from your hand that I am under any misreckoning . PEPYS,160.071.1113

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Nor shall I offer at giveing you any Method to order your Enquiries by
, but wholly leave it to your owne direction , PEPYS,160.071.1114

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
and have referr'd my Sister to it as shee shall learne it from you .
PEPYS,160.071.1115

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
And as you shall encourage and advise me I shall governe myselfe
towards her , who will always bee bound to you for your good nature on
her behalfe , PEPYS,160.071.1116

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
and soe shall I on the score of our desolate family
<our_desolate_family_SHORTHAND;_TRANSCRIPTION_OF_desolate_UNCERTAIN> _@
, remaineing Your most oblig'd and most humble servant S P_NPR
PEPYS,160.071.1117

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_071:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
To Dr Turner of Eynesbury PEPYS,160.071.1118

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_072> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_161>

{ED:123._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

{ED:Eynesbury}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
August 26 PEPYS,161.072.1119

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I have returned your Bible with most humble thanks
PEPYS,161.072.1120

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I hope you will receive it safe , PEPYS,161.072.1121

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the person for whome I borrowed it saith that it is not the Bible of
Sixtus 5tus but of Clemens Octavus with the title of Sixtus ,
PEPYS,161.072.1122

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this he knoweth very well having the Originalls of both by him ,
PEPYS,161.072.1123

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
when Clemens had printed his translation a little more then two year
after that of Sixtus , the protestants observing some contradictions
and above varieties in these two impressions proclaim to all the world
that one of these two popes must needs be a Fallible interpreter of the
scripture PEPYS,161.072.1124

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the church of Rome sensible of this endeavour whatever they can to call
in all the impression of Sixtus PEPYS,161.072.1125

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and in severall places cause that of Clemens to be printed under his
name PEPYS,161.072.1126

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this makes the true translation of Sixtus 5tus which is very rare to be
of so great price , PEPYS,161.072.1127

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I will adde much more that hath bin said to me on this subject when I
next wait on you , which I hope to doe next November PEPYS,161.072.1128

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I have received your letter of August 14 PEPYS,161.072.1129

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have bin at Brampton where this is the plain case
PEPYS,161.072.1130

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mr Jackson hath land unsetled part Freehold and part copy to the value
of 13 +L 18s per annum , PEPYS,161.072.1131

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but when the quitt rent and charge of alienation is righthy considered
I would not be willing to give him above +L for it PEPYS,161.072.1132

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so much I think it is worth ; PEPYS,161.072.1133

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
there are two reasons which move the old Gentleman and Mrsis Jackson so
earnestly to desire your purchasing this land PEPYS,161.072.1134

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
one is for that the estate being dismembred of this part will not be
convenient for a tenant whereas they hope by your being owner the whole
may continue togather PEPYS,161.072.1135

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The other reason is that he may discharge his debts which I told them
on Friday last might be don by the mony of any other purchaser as well
as by yours , PEPYS,161.072.1136

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but by a closer examination I found that it would not be don by either
, PEPYS,161.072.1137

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they confesse him to be in debt +L when the land will not sell for
above +L so that upon the whole matter I think that your buying the
land at a iust valuable rate will not put an end to their trouble from
their creditors or yours from them PEPYS,161.072.1138

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But if you please to give +L for that which is not worth above +L then
Mr Jackson offers to have the whole estate both reall and personall so
settled upon Trustees for the use of his wife and children that he
shall not be able to receive any part of it whilest he lives but will
be confined to an allowance of 8 +L or +L per annum ,
PEPYS,161.072.1139

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir You are better able then <P_162> I am to judge how same such
settlement may secure your selfe or Mrsis Jackson from future trouble ,
PEPYS,162.072.1140

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ther nothing remains to be considered but your accepting or refusing
the Dear purchase , PEPYS,162.072.1141

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I shall be most ready upon all occasions to afford them what
assistance or advice I am able being most thankfully sensible of your
kindnesse and favours to me PEPYS,162.072.1142

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir Your most humble and Faithfull servant John Turner
PEPYS,162.072.1143

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they tell me that Mr Jacksons estate <paren> if this purchase be made
out of it </paren> will be 65 +L per annum for six years and then but
+L per annum out of which Mris Jackson must maintain her selfe and
children , and give him an allowance PEPYS,162.072.1144

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_072:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuell Pepys Esquire at Mr Hewers house in York buildings in the
Strand PEPYS,162.072.1145

<Q_PEP_C_1680_T_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_073> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_1633> <R_JOHN_TURNER> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_162>

{ED:124._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_DR._JOHN_TURNER}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
London . PEPYS,162.073.1146

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
September the 3d . PEPYS,162.073.1147

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Sir I am newly return'd from a small journey to Essex ,
PEPYS,162.073.1148

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
and finde both your Letters of the 26th and instant Of which though the
latter puts some stop to my present consideration of the former ; yet I
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} , nor ought to forbeare the returneing you my
most faithfull thankes for your extraordinary Friendship exprest upon
the occasion of it's contents . Which I must confess carry matter in it
of very little satisfaction to mee ; unless it be that it would have
been yet less satisfactory , to have had my knowledge of it longer
delayd . PEPYS,162.073.1149

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
And since it has pleased God to put this Sickness of my Brother Jackson
's in the way of my comeing to any determination concerning it , I
shall respite the offering you any new trouble on that Subject till the
Event of that Sickness appears ; and at present only add my further
thankes to you for the safe returne of my Bible , wishing only that it
had better answer'd your trouble of peruseing it . PEPYS,162.073.1150

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Not but that though it's Title at the Beginning deceive us , the Table
at the end does make good that greater Fallibility of the Popes , which
we Protestants please ourselves with , from those different
Translations of Scripture expos'd by Sixtus and Clemens ; with the
additionall Cheat of putting <P_163> the Title-Page of one Pope to the
Text of the Other . PEPYS,163.073.1151

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
Soe , respectfully kissing your hands , I remaine Your oblig'd and most
humble Servant S P_NPR PEPYS,163.073.1152

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
To Dr Turner PEPYS,163.073.1153

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
RECIPIENT:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
LETTER:PEPYS_073:E3:1680:COPY:OTHER
I shall endeavour to look up that Assignment of my Brother Jackson 's
to my Brother John Pepys <paren> in case I have it </paren> with all
speed {with}_P I can . PEPYS,163.073.1154

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_074> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_163>

{ED:125._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eynesbury PEPYS,163.074.1155

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
September 7 PEPYS,163.074.1156

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I received yours of September 3d PEPYS,163.074.1157

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mr Jackson dyed on Thursday last in the evening PEPYS,163.074.1158

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
at the request of Mris Jackson I went over on Friday morning
PEPYS,163.074.1159

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and gave the best advice I could for his private buriall , and Mris
Jacksons behaviour towards the creditors PEPYS,163.074.1160

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I have also requested Sir Nicholas Pedley to afford her his advice upon
all occasions when it shall be needed , PEPYS,163.074.1161

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I hope she will not meet with any difficultyes but the creditors
will be content with what they have right to without causeing trouble
to the widow and Fatherlesse , PEPYS,163.074.1162

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I wish you all happinesse PEPYS,163.074.1163

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am heartily gladde of any opportunity <paren> though it be to your
trouble , of testifying my selfe Sir Your most affectionate and
thankfull servant John Turner PEPYS,163.074.1164

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuell Pepys Esquire , at Mr Hewers in York buildings in the
strand London PEPYS,163.074.1165

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_074:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
send by Sayer at the green dragon within listofe gate on friday
PEPYS,163.074.1166

<Q_PEP_A_1680_T_JTURNER> <L_PEPYS_075> <A_JOHN_TURNER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_COUSIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_COUSIN> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_163>

{ED:126._DR._JOHN_TURNER_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eynesbury PEPYS,163.075.1167

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
September 14 {ED:16} PEPYS,163.075.1168

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I am iust now come From Brampton whither I went to meet Sir
Nicholas Pedley that Mrsis Jackson might have full information what
answer should be given to the creditors some of which are very
clamorous PEPYS,163.075.1169

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but she is fully instructed how to deal with them , PEPYS,163.075.1170

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Sir Nicholas hath shewed himselfe a very kind and Faithfull friend
PEPYS,163.075.1171

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir <P_164> it will be absolutely necessary that the Assignment of Mr
Jacksons lease of Ellington parsonage be found out , which he made to
Mr John Pepys , and that you take out letters of Administration for the
estate of mr John Pepys in order to dispose of the said lease as you
shall think fitt , PEPYS,164.075.1172

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for if your title doe not hinder the creditors will immediatly seise on
it , PEPYS,164.075.1173

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I know not of any farther trouble will at the present be put upon you
about Mrsis Jacksons affaires PEPYS,164.075.1174

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir I wish you good health PEPYS,164.075.1175

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and allways remain Sir Your most affectionate and humble servant John
Turner PEPYS,164.075.1176

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir your Father is very well PEPYS,164.075.1177

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sends his blessing PEPYS,164.075.1178

AUTHOR:JOHN_TURNER:MALE:COUSIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:COUSIN:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_075:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For Samuell Pepys Esquire , at Mr Hewers in York buildings in the
strand London PEPYS,164.075.1179

<Q_PEP_A_1680_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_076> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_164>

{ED:127._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Downes PEPYS,164.076.1180

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Friday night September 24 , PEPYS,164.076.1181

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most Ever honoured Sir After Assureing your Honour of the Continuance
of my most humble dutey with intier resignation to your wills and
comands , and the giveing you , as I Shall to my lives Einde trew
proofes of my most Faithfull Services without any consideration but
trew honour ; which being from the very botome of my hart and Sowle , I
humbly pray , and hope you will doe me that Justice to beleeve :
PEPYS,164.076.1182

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and after my giveing your Dear honour millions of thankes <paren> not
$I $'ll {TEXT:Ile} asure you for the present imployment I have , in soe
much confusion , paine , disquiets , and discouragements it haveing by
delay prooved as it doth soe much to my misfortune , and ruine ; by the
disapointements of those advantages your goodness designed me ,
PEPYS,164.076.1183

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therefore <paren> for which ware I not more then comon man I shoold
Runn to dispaire </paren> though I am sacrified , and towrne from the
Bowells of my sweet litill famely ; and from my five small babes whoe
cryed after theire owne father , at my departure from them , and that
to , after all my youth Spent in his <P_165> Majesty 's Service in Ever
and all dangers and trubles , which I have performed with trew
faithfullness and honour both-5 to your Dear selfe , and his Majesty 's
Service </paren> to have at last noe other recompence then to be sent
to the Divill for a New $yeares $gift {TEXT:yeares-gift} . yet the
infatigable and Generous Eagerness wherewith you ware pleased to
Express and act on my late behalfe , besides the Ever obligations I
have to your goodness , and which I cann never repay but with my blood
; wherefore I say dutey , as well as my love , bindes me to give you
those Millions and Millions of thankes I owe , haveing yet noe more to
give , wherefore , pray your honour to accept them from one , whoe , I
hope you know , is your most faithfull Creature , till the world , my
good fortune in your Esteeme , and your owne goodness , may give me
other oportunitys , to Shew , what one occasion , in great truth ,
faith , and honour , I then may and will doe for your Dear service .
PEPYS,165.076.1184

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
in the Meane while this only comes to give your honour truble , by
acquinting you of my only bodely unfortunate proseedings since I had
the honour last to kiss your hands at london . PEPYS,165.076.1185

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
thus . After I had tooke my leave of your Dear honour , and that after
I had bine to doe the like with my pretey sweet famely and leave them
<paren> perhapps never more to returne </paren> desolate which burstt
my hart to thinke of theire pretious teares both of Mother and babes .
Munday last at 3 the afternoon I went to Debtford , hopeing soe to have
finished buseneses with Mr hosier , as to have bine after , that day ,
time Enough at Gravesend PEPYS,165.076.1186

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and soe by land twesday night at Deale ; PEPYS,165.076.1187

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but it hapined that wee could not have done , till 11 that night , and
Consequently was forsed to lye there from whence next morning being
twesday at 6 i set forward for Gravesend where I was by one that
afternoon , and where , when I was preparing to take horse to goe on
for Deale aforesaid ; a Gravesend boat , then there , tould me , that
the Newcastell , and $Gloster $flyboat {TEXT:Gloster-flyboat} ware noe
farther then the boy of the Nowre , and that for Eight shillings , they
woold put me on board that night , which being confermed by severall ,
and my owne thoughts that it must needs be soe if thay ware there the
Morning , the winde being Easterly ; and allsoe Cheefely for good
husbandry <paren> soe often by your dear honour recomended to me
</paren> I accepted of the oportunity ; PEPYS,165.076.1188

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and putting my selfe in a Gravesend wherry at about 3 of the clock the
Afternoon with a peece of bread and Cheese , i proseeded in the said
boat , PEPYS,165.076.1189

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but by the time we ware gott as Farr as the lower Einde of the hope ,
Such a Fogg and Storme arose , at E , that our Cockell Shell tooke
Every Sea over , and we like to perish not seeing one inch before uss
nor knowing wheither to Steare , Soe that my Good husbandry <P_166> had
like to have made at once a poore widow , and five miserable orphans ,
PEPYS,166.076.1190

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but god had marcy of them PEPYS,166.076.1191

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and woold not have it soe , PEPYS,166.076.1192

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for it pleased him that from the Kentish shoare , <paren> where we
Judged wee then ware , and that we knew there was noe place on that
side to putt in </paren> we rowing over about 3 howers time , wee got
onn the Essex side , PEPYS,166.076.1193

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and feeling out the way <paren> with our boat Ever full of watter
</paren> got in Cole haven where at 11 at night wee arived ,
PEPYS,166.076.1194

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
we got on shoare PEPYS,166.076.1195

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and drying our Cloathes , refreshed our selves with what the house
aforded , PEPYS,166.076.1196

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but beads they had none , PEPYS,166.076.1197

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
soe wee resting on a bench with a house over our head till 4 of the
clock wensday morning , when the winde being litell less , and
suferings <paren> though inosent </paren> haveing bine my meat and
drinke for some yeares past , and besides my owne nature not to be
dashed out of Courage for dangers ; I therefore resolved to proseed ,
in hopes to have met the shipps as at first designed ; but in vaine ;
PEPYS,166.076.1198

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
they ware gone ; PEPYS,166.076.1199

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
thus being in a small wherry in open sea as low allmost as the
Read-sand , and knowing not what to doe , <paren> besides the
perplexity of my Minde fearing if I shoold returne to loose soe mutch
time to returne to Gravesend and then by land , that before I could get
to Deale the shipps woold be sailed on theire voyage , </paren> and the
winde freshening upon uss teribly , as the day before at East , at last
on our totering resolutions , god sent uss passing by , a small Ketch
bound to Margate namely the unity of that place Edward Tomlins Master ;
whoe takeing pitey of uss , took uss upp , PEPYS,166.076.1200

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
this was about 2 the Afternoon where I continued ; PEPYS,166.076.1201

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but the winde still continuing fresh at E , and we not able to make but
one tide a day , thay falling out soe cross , it was till this morning
at about before we got through the Boyes of the Narrow ,
PEPYS,166.076.1202

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and at about 11 got in Margat Road , where the Ketch being bound noe
further , and when I thought to have gone on shoare to have proseeded
by land , Just as wee ware coming to Anchor an other small Ketch which
folowed uss throug the Narrow <paren> we haling </paren> founde him to
be a Chichester man , bound thether <paren> her name the Mary of that
place Thomas long Master , on board which I went PEPYS,166.076.1203

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and by 2 this afternoon wee ware off the N foreland wher <paren> to my
great harts Ease <paren> small things being soe to one made upp of
payne and sorow </paren> I fearing the shipps ware sailed out of the
Downes before </paren> I saw the New Castell off the Gulls , getting in
the Downes , being come by the Swinn , through the Kings - Chanall ,
PEPYS,166.076.1204

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
then was I at Much Ease <paren> and like a wooman in labour after her
deliverance </paren> PEPYS,166.076.1205

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
forgot my former terible 4 days truble on board the ketches where wee
had noe meat nor drinke but stincking water bread and Cheese ;
PEPYS,166.076.1206

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
in my said last ketch , I got in the Downes this night about 7 when
likewise came in the New-Castell , PEPYS,166.076.1207

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but the fly-boat which came about likewise <P_167> with her not yet in
sight though Expected to Morow . PEPYS,167.076.1208

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I gott on shoare by nine at night where in some litell rest I now wate
her coming . PEPYS,167.076.1209

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
What therefor I have further to marke to your honour , and give you
further truble in , is to desier yow to take notice of the various
steppes of My life , since I have had relation to the Navey under your
patronage , how full of thornes my life hath bine , and that I , and
only I of My age Ever had the like measure in this world , from my
first Essay , in Bloody fights , both at home and a broad , to all the
dangerous imployments on shoare , wherefore I humbly begg your Dear
honour not to be angrey with me , if repeating I tell you that the
obediance to your wille <paren> which to my lives Einde I will observe
</paren> is the only cause of any content in , or consent of Myne to
this Soe Cross intended voyage , and that therefore your goodness woold
please to Consider , and in time lay hould of the occasion of Caling me
home , to more happy imployments , which by that time I hope , I may
deserve and Claime as My Due , from his Majesty , and your favour ,
that soe I may not have Still , and Dye in imployments <paren> only
provided for me </paren> full of Danger , Great truble , and Noe gaine
such as none but I , could be singled out to have : PEPYS,167.076.1210

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
<paren> Lord why was I borne </paren> PEPYS,167.076.1211

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
shall I never have rest from fightgs and stormes , but continue when My
youth likewise and Greatest vigour is past , PEPYS,167.076.1212

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
oh My Essays and Continuances have , bine and are ; and without hopes
woold be to cruell ; PEPYS,167.076.1213

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and which is worse , the Slights the world , of those creatures you
have made , Show me dayley at the Navey office , &c : beleeving me ,
most Ignorent in imployments , and of less sowle then any other , or
that Elce you woold before this have done for me , as for others less
related , had I deserved any thing Either-4 , by Courage , honour , or
capacitey : wherefore I hope , when your honour shall have made the
Kinge sensible of the contrary , and of the unjust measure hath bine
meeted to me ; and that he hath none in his navey , that after such
dangerous imployments all theire youth past , without reward ; is still
soe zelously willing in his age to manifest to the world his dutey to
his Prince , and not repine nor denye ; his sending me still in more ,
and more dangers and trubles and now at last , which imployment I could
neither have but Just now at this Juncture of time , when nothing but
ill is to be Expected , both-11 {TEXT:of} to bodey , Content , or
incouragement , makeing me as litell considerate , as posible thay cann
, in soe much as a Master of Attendant <paren> and at Tangeire to
</paren> is My superiour . PEPYS,167.076.1214

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
pray Allsoe Dear your honour please to Consider that my lost time , and
places of imployment , from which I have bine unjustely towrne , are
detrimantall to me above +L which his Majesty May know , besides what I
have lost , by not haveing gained , <P_168> since the time of my
dismisment , PEPYS,168.076.1215

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
pray likewise Dear sir , Judge and Consider of My most Cruell and
severe case , beyond any Mortalls , that had I not had Mr Hewers
<paren> My Most Dear and worthy freind whoome god Bless </paren> his
favour of advancements <paren> in this my vacansey </paren> for bread ,
I and famely Might have Starved , soe that now I worke for only to
repay him ; as when a man as is usuall to say hee workes for a Dead
horse ; wherefore pray your honour <paren> since you have bine pleased
to grant me the liberty and freedome of speaking to you , <paren> which
by my Ever dutifull respects I shall Never abuse of </paren> give me
leave to pray to continue your Esteeme , and favour of , and to your
poore but most faithfullest creature ; and that in time and times noe
oportunity may slipp , to be tooke upp by others : that soe I may live
to make all those lyers , that thinkes i deserve not your favour ;
which hopeing in god , and you , that you will sudenly performe ,
Either-9 by imployments at home , at land , or sea , or Navey ; to
which latter , I pray your honour to beleeve I shall and May performe
with halfe the Incouragement of any there , and that I am bawked at
nothing in this world , or stand in awe of any , but your Dear selfe
and Comands ; by the admiration I have of your wisdome , but which is
more the love I Bare , and shall to My grave , to the Dear Lord , and
Cheefe-halfe , of my never to be forgotten Dear Sister .
PEPYS,168.076.1216

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
remember me and Myne Dear your honour while yet you may , that I may be
in a Capasitey of serveing you <paren> as none other will </paren> when
<paren> as I forsee </paren> you may not for your selfe , that soe then
<paren> as I will on my sowle in times and place </paren> you may be
revenged , of your Enemys by me , or your litell disiple Samuel when
perhapps you may not your selfe . PEPYS,168.076.1217

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for $'t $is {TEXT:tis} for your sake your honour knows , I am hated ,
and being soe low $can $not {TEXT:cannot} hold head against them , as
when hyer I will to theire shame and confusion ; and when incouraged
but wherewith ; PEPYS,168.076.1218

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
oh lord how shoold the world then , feele , see , and know ; whose
freinde , and relation I have the honour to be , all which recomending
to your honours Noble serious , and fatherly consideration ; and with
my most humble service and Millions of repeated thankes to our Dear ,
and Most worthy freinde Mr Hewers , and humbly begging the continuance
of your honours and his favour and kindeness , towards all my poore
fatherless famely , under whose protection next to god I have left them
. I remaine , with most Dutifull obedience Yours honours Most faithfull
and most humble Servant B St Michel PEPYS,168.076.1219

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_076:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
pray to give my Dearest love to my wife and Blessing to my Children
PEPYS,168.076.1220

<Q_PEP_A_1680_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_077> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_169>

{ED:128._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Downes PEPYS,169.077.1221

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
September 29th PEPYS,169.077.1222

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Most Ever honoured Sir , haveing received a letter form the Lords of
the Admiralty , of which I heerewith sende your Honour a coppy ,
togeather with my answer thereto : and besides my haveing yett the
Comfort of your counsell and advice while yet at noe further distance ;
I owne it my Dutey to signifie nothing to them , while I may Either by
writeing or otherwise , without your approoval to which I will Ever
submitt ; PEPYS,169.077.1223

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and hope <paren> since you see by the perussall of it , how uneasey ,
and slaveshly litell <paren> by theire mistrustefull proseedinges
</paren> thay will make me subordinate to Every one , and consequently
barr me by degrees , of the oportunity and Nesesarys for the
performeing my Dutey soe as at last to Ruine me , but that my hopes in
your honour 's favour at home , and my owne infatigable diligence
abroad will protecte me from theire spight . </paren> that you will
acquiess to what I have write : which after perusall and that it is to
your liking I humbly pray you will please to have delivered , and if it
may not be to your pleasure , please to let answer of the same date be
sent them , such as by your most wise Judgement you shall thinke
Convenient , for which purpose I herewith alsoe sende you my signature
to a Blanck which if made use of then please to sende me a Coppy ,
PEPYS,169.077.1224

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or if my owne letter hath your aprobation , then please to returne me
my Blanck . which with , Millions of pardons for this truble , and My
Dutifull Obedience , I rest Your Honour 's Most faithfull and humble
servant B St Michell PEPYS,169.077.1225

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_077:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Honourable Samuel Pepys These PEPYS,169.077.1226

<Q_PEP_A_1680_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_078> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_169>

{ED:129._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Downes - PEPYS,169.078.1227

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
October 2d: PEPYS,169.078.1228

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honoured Sir , haveing received this day a letter from the navey Board
with a new method of a bond for me to signe , not likeing it seemes the
first , or at least thay being resolved never to leave me in quiet ,
but turment me , and my freinds , to the very last : I have therefore
humbly made bould <P_170> to give your honour more truble ,
PEPYS,170.078.1229

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and heere inclosed sende you the Coppy of theire said letter , and with
it <paren> for looseing noe time </paren> the Bond signed and sealed ,
and before those wittnesses as thay desired , to the Einde that if it
hath your aproovall and Consent , you may please to have it delivered
them , PEPYS,170.078.1230

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or if not , that after you shall have Canseled my name : you woold
<paren> per the very next if your leasure may permitt </paren> please
to signife to me your pleasure and advice therein which with My
Dutifull Obedience is all at present from . Your Honour 's Most
faithfull and humble servant B St Michel PEPYS,170.078.1231

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_078:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Honourable Samuel Pepys These PEPYS,170.078.1232

<Q_PEP_C_1680_FN_SPEPYS> <L_PEPYS_079> <A_SAMUEL_PEPYS> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_1633> <R_PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_SISTER> <R-DOB_1640>

<P_170>

{ED:130._SAMUEL_PEPYS_TO_PAULINA_JACKSON}

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
London PEPYS,170.079.1233

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
October the 14th PEPYS,170.079.1234

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sister Jackson , I wrote you by the last Post , PEPYS,170.079.1235

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and since have received yours of the 12th with one enclosed from Mr
Hewer : PEPYS,170.079.1236

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
But still want another of his , which he directed to me at Brampton and
sent by the Post on Saturday was Sevennights , which should have come
to you at Brampton the day following . PEPYS,170.079.1237

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therefore in case it did not come to your hand , pray let it be
inquired after PEPYS,170.079.1238

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I would not have it miscarry . PEPYS,170.079.1239

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And pray present my Service to my Cosen Hollinshead , intreating her to
accept of a peece of Cloath from me to wear for my Father , which I
shall send to my Cosen her husband tomorrow for her , with the like for
a Suite for himselfe . PEPYS,170.079.1240

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I am takeing our Letters of Administration for my Father
PEPYS,170.079.1241

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and endeavour to dispatch that and my other Businesses so , that
<paren> if it be possible </paren> I may look over my Father 's Papers
relateing to Brampton , before the Terme begins PEPYS,170.079.1242

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and hope to that end to get downe to you againe the beginning of the
next week to be able to take the advice of Sir Nicholas Pedley in
anything wherein I shall need it , before he sets forth for London .
Which is all at present from Your truly Loving Brother S. P.
PEPYS,170.079.1243

AUTHOR:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER:1633:47
RECIPIENT:PAULINA_JACKSON[N.PEPYS]:FEMALE:SISTER:1640:40
LETTER:PEPYS_079:E3:1680:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my sister Jackson PEPYS,170.079.1244

<Q_PEP_A_1680_FO_BSTMICHEL> <L_PEPYS_080> <A_BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_SAMUEL_PEPYS>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_1633>

<P_174>

{ED:134._B._ST._MICHEL_TO_SAMUEL_PEPYS}

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Tangeire PEPYS,174.080.1245

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
December 13th PEPYS,174.080.1246

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Honored Sir , With most humble dutey and presentations of my Ever
faithfull Services this comes to acquinte you that after a most cruell
pasage of above 2 munths without any Comfort but the deck during my
pasage by the directions of that Beast Bothwick , the perticulars of
which will in some time by all the shipps Company be avouched ;
PEPYS,174.080.1247

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but all this dear your Honour , is not comparable to the Torments of my
Sufferings by your silence , of which I have only this to say that by
my Small service though i have never done anything which might balance
with those great and many favours I have received from you yett Sir I
know your goodness is such and that you know me soe well to beleeve
from your very Sowle , that when soever I did any thing for you , it
was to the uttermost of my power from myne ; and that my life it selfe
, was never soe dear to me as when I might imploy it for your service ,
in which resolution <paren> as god is my Judge </paren> I shall
Continue to my Grave ; and in the meane time still pray his heavenly
divinity for your preservation , health , welfare , and to sende you
victory over your Enemys . PEPYS,174.080.1248

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Now sir I come humbly to give you accompt how it is with me , since my
arivall heer being the 9th instant PEPYS,174.080.1249

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
you may please to know then , that there was noe Admirall Herbert , nor
Master Attendant heer , thay being both gone over to the Spanish side ,
PEPYS,174.080.1250

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but I went to <P_175> great Mr Sheares PEPYS,175.080.1251

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and presented him <paren> with all imaginable respect </paren> your
letter the Efects of which I know not , PEPYS,175.080.1252

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but have not yett seen or found any assistance or kindeness from him ,
more then Compliments for that I have not yet where to put my head or
doe my buseness ; PEPYS,175.080.1253

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
neither by the Master Attendance his absence have I any Boat or men to
doe any of My Navall dutey on float , soe that if it be not bettered by
some suden order I am likely to be but in a very sadd Condition to
performe my Dutey . PEPYS,175.080.1254

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
yesterday came in the Admirall whoe sent for me on Board to whoome I
presented your Honour 's service and letter , PEPYS,175.080.1255

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and though hee be the lofteist man in the world , yet hee received both
with soe much respect , and seeming kindeness imaginable , which though
you may beleeve <paren> for some reasons </paren> to be but fained ,
yet give me leave to assure your honour <paren> I haveing had some time
in my miserable life </paren> to wreede man , and by my perticular
acquintance with him </paren> {COM:SIC} that what came from him was
with honour and trew respect to you-wards . PEPYS,175.080.1256

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
hee is going againe this day over to the Spanish side to convoy over
the Spanish officers PEPYS,175.080.1257

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and in 4 or 5 days hee tells me hee is to returne , and that the fly
Boat with the stores shall then be ordered to Gibralter
PEPYS,175.080.1258

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and then what to doe with the stores heer , if hee have me there , and
how I shall performe my other duteys of Musters here , and survaying
the victualing Christ Jesus knows , PEPYS,175.080.1259

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I am at My witts Eindes PEPYS,175.080.1260

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and though I have this post given accompt allsoe thereof to the Navey
Board , yet I humbly pray , that you woold give my most Dear and
faithfull service to Mr Hewers , and desire him to lay all theese my
Greevances before them , for theire giveing me theire fresh directions
in the perticulars ; that soe thay may not ketch at my security for any
neglect of myne , perticularly for my Mustering , since I shall have
noe boat nor men , there being indeed noe boat heer at all .
PEPYS,175.080.1261

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Oh lord Jesus sende <paren> that paradox to me </paren> quickly your
honour 's saying to come to pass vizt that the worse shoold be the
better still , though I beleeve my life will not least to see it ,
PEPYS,175.080.1262

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
gods will be done . PEPYS,175.080.1263

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I conclude with praying the heavenly god to prosper and keepe you
PEPYS,175.080.1264

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and remaine as I shall Ever to the Einde of my life Your Honour 's Most
Dutifull and Ever Obedient Servant B St Michel PEPYS,175.080.1265

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I humbly begg the Continuance of your protection to my Poore famely ,
and that you woold send My Dearest love to My wife and Blessing to my 5
Dear babes PEPYS,175.080.1266

AUTHOR:BALTHASAR_ST._MICHEL:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:SAMUEL_PEPYS:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:1633:47
LETTER:PEPYS_080:E3:1680:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To The Honourable Samuel Pepys These London PEPYS,175.080.1267
