<B_SHILLIN>

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_001> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_3>

{ED:II._SHILLINGFORD_TO_HIS_FELLOWS_AT_EXETER._DRAFT_LETTER.}


AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worthy sires y grete yow well alle ; doyng yow to understonde that y
rode fro Excetre on Fryday and cam to London on Tywysday by tyme at vii
$at $te {TEXT:atte} cloke ; SHILLIN,3.001.1

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther sithenys have full bisily labored to make an answere to the
articulys . SHILLIN,3.001.2

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The cause of so longe taryng yn makyng of the answers hath be for right
grete bysynes y=t= Alisaunder Hody hath hadde aboute his awne maters ;
SHILLIN,3.001.3

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
netheles by the avys of Alisaunder Hody and Dowrisshe and Roger Rawly ,
{ED:they}_NP-SBJ beth made as may be yn so shorte tyme , trustyng to
God that al the substance ys comprehended ther ynne , so that what tyme
<P_4> hit is amended , corected and made by avys of counseyll to be
right well ; of the whiche answeris so shortely made y sende to yow ij.
copies , oon to be send to the Recorder yn hast yf hit may be for
shortenys of tyme , &c. , that other copy to abide w=t= yow , prayng
yow Thomas Cook most specially w=t= the lu tenaunt , callyng to yow
William Noble , Coteler , Druell , and other wham ye seme is to be don
, and that this answer be sadly over seyn ; SHILLIN,4.001.4

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf eny thyng be ther yn to myche or to litell yn substance to sette
the penne to sadly {ED:ORIGINALLY_to_sette_to_the_penne_sadly} . This
don y pray yow to calle be fore yow $at $te {TEXT:atte} halle
{ED:in_my_name_ERASED} the substance of the comminalte , praynge every
of tham yn my name and chargyng tham yn +te most streytest wyse yn the
Kynges byhalf to come to fore yow yn haste for the tydyngs that y have
sent home to yow ; and that ye wysely declare to fore tham these
answers ; so that they sey manly yee and nay yn suche poyntes as yow
thynke to be don , &c. and +t=t= +tey wyll abide by +t=e= answers yn
all wyse , and that labo=r= and spekyng be before to that entent .
SHILLIN,4.001.5

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_001:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This don y pray yow that y have a gode man sende to me yn hast .
SHILLIN,4.001.6

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_002> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_4>

{ED:III._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._LONDON,_OCT._30TH,_1447._DRAFT_LE TTER.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Memo=d= that on Monedey next before the feste of Seynt Luke the yere of
the regne of the kyng that now is xxvj <paren> Henry VI </paren> .
<P_5> Richard Druell , William Speere and Henry Dobyn w=t= ham rode
oute of Exceter to London-ward for nedes of the cite , that is to seye
to kepe the dey of apparence $at $te {TEXT:atte} xv. of Seynt Michall
as the cite was bounde to , as hit appereth by a bounde condycionell ,
havyng w=t= ham sufficiant power and the comyn seell and xl s. of John
Shillingford , Mayer , and xx s. of John Germyn , for their coustages ;
and so departed the seyde Monedey yerly . SHILLIN,5.002.7

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as tochyng the seyde xl s. w=t= xl s. more that the seyde John
Mayer payed to Trevylian , he was payed ayen by the feloship of the
collecte mony to the plee , &c . SHILLIN,5.002.8

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How the seyde Richard Druell and William Speere spedde when they came
to London hit appereth yn a sedule by the sayde Richard Druell and
William Speer therof made , remaynyng w=t= the {ED:seyde} Rychard
Druell . SHILLIN,5.002.9

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forthermore as tochyng the goynge of the seyde John Shillyngforde ,
mayer , he was all redy for to ride the seide Monedey :
SHILLIN,5.002.10

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
varians y moved bytwene hym and the seyde Richard Druell , nerthelez
better accorde hadde by mene of Thomas Cook , Richard Druell w=t= other
held his wey , SHILLIN,5.002.11

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the seyde mayer abode at home yn to a tuysday next after Seynt Luke
is dey for settyng of the kynges dyme , comyng of Trevylian , and other
grete maters toching the cite , and yn especiall to have the feloship
togeder , a sadde communicacion to be had or his departyng , the whiche
communicacion myght not be had before Saterdey next after Seynt Luke is
dey for this cause that the grete part of the feloship was at Calston
is fayre , SHILLIN,5.002.12

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thoo that war at home , as Upton , Coteler and Pope , were syke on
theire beddes ; SHILLIN,5.002.13

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for alle these causes the mayer abode at home so longe ,
SHILLIN,5.002.14

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all that tyme he kepte his iij. hors yn stabill every dey redy to
ride to hym {COM:FOR_his?} grete coste . SHILLIN,5.002.15

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The tuysday he rode and w=t= hym William Hampton and John Fagot .
SHILLIN,5.002.16

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
On Wendysdey at nyght they came to Sheftesbery SHILLIN,5.002.17

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there mette w=t= Richard Druell , whiche made reporte of his gode
spede and grete laboure at London , as hit appereth yn his sayde
remembrance , and that on the beste wyse . SHILLIN,5.002.18

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Saterdey next ther after the mayer <P_6> came to Westminster sone
apon ix. $at $te {TEXT:atte} belle , SHILLIN,6.002.19

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther mette w=t= my lorde Chaunceller $at $te {TEXT:atte} brode dore
a litell fro the steire fote comyng fro the Sterre chamber , y yn the
courte and by the dore knellyng and salutyng hym yn the moste godely
wyse that {in}_P y cowde and recommended yn to his gode and gracious
lordship my feloship and all the comminalte , his awne peeple and
bedmen of the Cite of Exceter . SHILLIN,6.002.20

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seyde to the mayer ij. tymes " Well come , " and the iij=de=. tyme "
Right well come Mayer , " SHILLIN,6.002.21

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and helde the mayer a grete while faste by the honde , SHILLIN,6.002.22

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so went forth to his barge and w=t= hym grete presse , lordis and
other , &c. and yn especiall the tresorer of the kynges housholde ,
w=t= wham he was at right grete pryvy communicacion . SHILLIN,6.002.23

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfor y , mayer , drowe me apart , SHILLIN,6.002.24

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mette w=t= hym at his goyng yn to his barge , SHILLIN,6.002.25

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther toke my leve of hym , seyyng these wordis , SHILLIN,6.002.26

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" My lord , y wolle awayte apon youre gode lordship and youre better
leyser at another tyme . " SHILLIN,6.002.27

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seyde to me ayen , SHILLIN,6.002.28

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" Mayer , y pray yow hertely that ye do so , and that ye speke w=t= the
Chief Justyse SHILLIN,6.002.29

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and what tyme that ever he will y woll be all redy . " SHILLIN,6.002.30

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus departed , &c . SHILLIN,6.002.31

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Soneday abowte viij. $at $te {TEXT:atte} clokke y came to Lambeth ,
and w=t= me Dowrissh and Speere to myte and speke w=t= my seyd lord .
SHILLIN,6.002.32

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
We mette SHILLIN,6.002.33

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake w=t= hym yn the ynner chamber , he at that tyme beyng right
bysy goynge yn to his closet . SHILLIN,6.002.34

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And w=t= right gode longage and gode chere yn godely wyse exscused hym
that he myght not speke w=t= ous $at $te {TEXT:atte} that tyme for
grete bysynes , SHILLIN,6.002.35

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and comaunded ous to come ayen the morun . SHILLIN,6.002.36

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y , mayer , prayed hym of oo a worde at that tyme and no more , y
seyyng that y was enfourmed that he was dysplesed of my late comyng ,
SHILLIN,6.002.37

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf he so were , y bysoghte hym to hire myne excuse grete .
SHILLIN,6.002.38

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seyde " Nay ; " but that y was come yn right gode tyme and well come
, SHILLIN,6.002.39

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and at his departyng yn to his closet he seide , " Mayer , wolde God ye
hadde made a gode ende at home . " SHILLIN,6.002.40

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y seide , " Wolde God my lord that we so hadde , SHILLIN,6.002.41

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God y take to recorde y have done my due dilygent part therto ,
SHILLIN,6.002.42

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that yn tyme y truste to God ye shall well knowe ; SHILLIN,6.002.43

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for y have right meny thyng to enfourme yow <P_7> of yf y hadde tyme .
" SHILLIN,7.002.44

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide " Well , mayer , " SHILLIN,7.002.45

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bade me come ayen that same dey afternone , SHILLIN,7.002.46

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed , &c . SHILLIN,7.002.47

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y was by the Styward and meny other of the housholde full fayre y bede
to abide $at $te {TEXT:atte} mete , SHILLIN,7.002.48

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne never hadde better chere of my lorde ne of the houshold then y hadde
$at $te {TEXT:atte} tyme . SHILLIN,7.002.49

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Netherlez y exscused me SHILLIN,7.002.50

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wold not abide as for tyme . SHILLIN,7.002.51

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so went over the water to Temple to Bluet , &c . SHILLIN,7.002.52

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so went w=t= Bluet , Dowrissh , Speere and y to the chief justice
SHILLIN,7.002.53

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and comyned of meny thynges w=t= hym . SHILLIN,7.002.54

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He is like as y conceve to have the grete rule yn this mater ,
SHILLIN,7.002.55

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my lorde Chaunceller seide , as hit is aboveseid , that he wolde
attende when the justyse wolde , the whiche y seide to the justyse .
SHILLIN,7.002.56

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The justyse seyde he wold be aredy at his callyng . SHILLIN,7.002.57

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as y conceve by dyvers wordes that they have comyned of a rule yn
this mater ; SHILLIN,7.002.58

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what ever hit be y can not wyte as yet . SHILLIN,7.002.59

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
God eve {ED:FIRST_WRITTEN_yeve} grace hit be gode , SHILLIN,7.002.60

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so y truste to God that hit be . SHILLIN,7.002.61

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That afternone y went ayen to Lambeth to my lord after his
commaundement aboveseid SHILLIN,7.002.62

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and when y come thider to hym yn to his ynner chamber , there was myche
peeple , lordes and other , my lord Tresorer , under Tresorer , the
pryvy seel , land {COM:FOR_and?} dyvers abbottes and pryours , and meny
strangers aleyns of other londys . SHILLIN,7.002.63

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And then came yn the Duke of Bokyngham , SHILLIN,7.002.64

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther was grete bysynes at that tyme , SHILLIN,7.002.65

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hardly alle men were bede to avoyde that chamber saaf the lordes .
SHILLIN,7.002.66

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nerthelez y awayted my tyme SHILLIN,7.002.67

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and put me yn presse SHILLIN,7.002.68

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and went right to my lorde Chaunceller SHILLIN,7.002.69

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide , " My lorde y am come at youre commaundement ,
SHILLIN,7.002.70

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but y se youre grete bysynesse is suche that ye may not attende . "
SHILLIN,7.002.71

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide " Noo , by his trauthe and that y myght right well se . "
SHILLIN,7.002.72

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide " Yee , and that y was sory and hadde pyty of his grete
vexacion . " SHILLIN,7.002.73

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide " Mayer , y moste to morun ride by tyme to the Kyng , and come
ayen this wyke : SHILLIN,7.002.74

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ye most awayte apon my comyng , SHILLIN,7.002.75

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then y woll speke w=t= the justise and attende for yow , &c . "
SHILLIN,7.002.76

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , " My lorde , y woll do after youre commaundement , "
SHILLIN,7.002.77

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and prayed hym of hys gode and gracyous lordship of oo worde more , yf
he were enfourmed <P_8> by worde or by wrytyng of eny thyng that y have
do or seyde or governed me yn eny wyse at home sithen the last terme my
departyng fro hym other wyse then to his plesure and after his
commaundement . SHILLIN,8.002.78

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seyde right hertly " Nay , " but that y hadde governed me at home yn
the most best and godely wyse and therfor he oowde me grete thanke ,
SHILLIN,8.002.79

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide hertely that y sholde have Goddes blessyng and his therfor ,
&c . SHILLIN,8.002.80

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so departed , &c . SHILLIN,8.002.81

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nota that Druell and Speere is beyng afore dide gode , SHILLIN,8.002.82

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_002:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they dide theire part yn the most best wyse . SHILLIN,8.002.83

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_003> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_8>

{ED:IV._SHILLINGFORD_TO_HIS_FELLOWS._LONDON,_2_NOV._1447.}

{ED:THE_OF_THIS_LETTER_PART_OF_THE_DRAFT_ARE_EXTANT;_THE_EMEND
ED_WORDS_ARE_FILLED_IN_FROM_THE_DRAFT.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Worthy Sires , as yn the other letter &c. y grete yow </em> $well
alle . Yn the whiche letter y wrote to yow that y hadde a dey to <P_9>
appere before the lordis for <em> oure mater the Fridey next ther after
; SHILLIN,9.003.84

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for as moche as </em> my lord Chaunceller bade the Justyse to dyner
ayenst that same day for <em> oure mater , seyyng that he sholde have a
dys </em> of salt fisshe ; y hiryng this , y didde as me thoght aughte
to be done , SHILLIN,9.003.85

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and by avys <em> of the Justise and of oure counseill , and sende </em>
thider that day ij. stately pikerellis and ij. stately tenchis , for
the whiche my <em> lord Chaunceller cowde right grete thank </em> ys
and made right moche therof hardely ; SHILLIN,9.003.86

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hit came yn gode seson , SHILLIN,9.003.87

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for my lordis <em> the Duke of Bokyngham , the Markis </em> of
Southfolke and other , Bysshoppis divers dyned with my lord Chaunceller
$that <em> dey . SHILLIN,9.003.88

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But </em> as touchyng the laboure and spede of oure mater that day ,
hit was by my seide lorde ajorned over yn to the <em> morun </em>
Saterdey for these causis that a grete disputacion was be fore my lorde
yn his chapell at Lambeth for <em> $prechyng of </em> Bysshoppis .
SHILLIN,9.003.89

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the seide lordis that same Friday were there at diner .
SHILLIN,9.003.90

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And the Justise came not there that day ; SHILLIN,9.003.91

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but the same Friday after mete y was with the Justise by longe tyme and
yn gode leisure to comyne of oure mater . SHILLIN,9.003.92

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y fynde hym a gode man and well willed yn oure right , and like to have
the grete rule of the mater , as yn the other letter . SHILLIN,9.003.93

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he bade me move of some gode meene to ende the mater .
SHILLIN,9.003.94

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide ayen , savyng his commaundement , y cowde no skyll theryn ne to
speke ne move of menys , SHILLIN,9.003.95

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne hit was not my part so to do ; SHILLIN,9.003.96

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hit wolde seme if y so didde , that y hadde doute of oure right ,
where y have right none , SHILLIN,9.003.97

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we woll dwelle and abide thereapoun and go no ferther ;
SHILLIN,9.003.98

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but if eny man wolde move of eny meene , hit was my part to hire and so
to reporte , &c . SHILLIN,9.003.99

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But furthermore y seide that fro ij. thyngis w=t= oure gode will we
wolde never departe ; that the churche and cimitere , as that they
calle synt Stevyn is fe , is parcel of the cite and ever hath be and
shall be ; and that we have a vyw and alle that to belongeth , and they
right none , ne never hadde ne shall have but <P_10> ever w=t= ynne the
jurisdiccion and under the correccion and punysshment of the cite , &c
. SHILLIN,10.003.100

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide that they claymed a viw and that they hadde used moche thyng ,
&c . SHILLIN,10.003.101

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he seide hit was aunsion demene . SHILLIN,10.003.102

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y seide nay , SHILLIN,10.003.103

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and proved hit by Domesday , SHILLIN,10.003.104

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so were on grete argamentes by longe tyme , to longe to write :
SHILLIN,10.003.105

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
all hit was to tempte me w=t= laghynge chere . SHILLIN,10.003.106

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide they hadde no more but sympell Court Baron , if they so hadde .
SHILLIN,10.003.107

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide that every man myght have of his awne tenantis and aske no man
no leve , &c . SHILLIN,10.003.108

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide how sholde they have more ; SHILLIN,10.003.109

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they have no olde grauntis of kynges , SHILLIN,10.003.110

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne clayme none allowance yn Eyere , ne instrument to do punysshement of
that that longethe to a lete . SHILLIN,10.003.111

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide hit was a fe called of olde tyme . SHILLIN,10.003.112

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide yee , as suche fees as beth ther on towne , SHILLIN,10.003.113

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and reherced hym of vij. and that alle were parcell of the cite :
SHILLIN,10.003.114

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and among other y rehersed hym of Seynt Nicholas fe .
SHILLIN,10.003.115

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide lete the Bisshoppis fe be as Seynt Nicholas fe is .
SHILLIN,10.003.116

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , if hit pleased hym , nay , hit myght not be so ;
SHILLIN,10.003.117

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Seynt Nicholas fe , y called Haroldis fe , is graunt of olde kyngis
and confirmaciouns , &c . SHILLIN,10.003.118

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide the Bisshop hadde the same . SHILLIN,10.003.119

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide nay that I never knyw ne sigh , SHILLIN,10.003.120

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and if that they so hadde , lete hit be shewed SHILLIN,10.003.121

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and but hit be answered hit sholde ende the mater . SHILLIN,10.003.122

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then he moved of divers menys and abstynance of arestis .
SHILLIN,10.003.123

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide when the last grete debate was of the suburbis w=t= oute Este
yeate , of whiche debate he was cause of an ende by a recompense , $at
$te {TEXT:atte} ende of whiche mater hit was desired for to have an
abstynance , SHILLIN,10.003.124

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but none y graunted but under this fourme , that the Maier that tyme
beyng , and every man that hadde be Maier and like to be Maier ,
promysed on his feith to forbere of arestis on the Churche for certyn
ouris , alle that they myght godely , SHILLIN,10.003.125

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sithenes hadde they no cause resonable to complaine ;
SHILLIN,10.003.126

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y seide this was a grete thynge as me thoght . SHILLIN,10.003.127

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide nay for that that sholde be $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme sholde
be do by writynge for a perpetual pees . SHILLIN,10.003.128

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then he asked of me of this mene ; if we wolde absteyne us and forbere
of arrestis of alle men of habite servantis familiars knawed without
any fraude generally . SHILLIN,10.003.129

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , if hit <P_11> pleased hym , nay ; SHILLIN,11.003.130

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hit was better the last terme before this , that we sholde forbere
of arrestis but yn tyme of doyng of divine servys of men of habite ,
servantis familiars and theire Baillyffs knawed , &c. and of alle other
as on Sent Paull is Chirche at London . SHILLIN,11.003.131

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide hit was soth , SHILLIN,11.003.132

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked ayen if we wold forbere and absteyne and be recompensed
therfor , SHILLIN,11.003.133

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and we to have the viw and alle that longeth therto generally , as well
on the fe as , &c. and so to make arrestis w=t= ynne the fe , as y
conceved hym , and to forbere alle other arrestis w=t= ynne his
tenementis of the seide fe and to be recompensed &c. and the Bisshop to
have his courtis of his awne tenantis and to holde plees of gretter
somme thenne {ED:+ten_IN_DRAFT} Court Baron xl s . SHILLIN,11.003.134

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake of xl. marke . SHILLIN,11.003.135

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Apon this mene he stiked faste , SHILLIN,11.003.136

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thoghte {ED:+toughte_IN_DRAFT} hit was resonable SHILLIN,11.003.137

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ever asked of me divers tymes what y wolde seye therto , all as y
conceve to tempte me , and to concente to a mene , &c .
SHILLIN,11.003.138

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then y seide " My lorde , if hit please you , ye shall have me
exscused to answere , " &c . SHILLIN,11.003.139

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for thogh me thoght that hit were a mene resonable y dar not sey yee ,
thogh y have power , SHILLIN,11.003.140

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the mater toucheth a grete comminalte as well as me , and so that y
dar not seye yn to tyme that y have spoke w=t= my felowship at home :
SHILLIN,11.003.141

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y seide , " My lorde , for as moche as y conceve right well that
this mater , if hit ende $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme , hit is like to
ende by a mene , hit is my part to hire and to reporte , &c .
SHILLIN,11.003.142

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but be the mene never so resonable to conclude with yow , thogh y have
power ynogh , y beseche yow of youre gode lordship to have me exscused
therof yn to tyme y have be at home with my felowship , or of tham here
with me vj. or vij . SHILLIN,11.003.143

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for other wyse woll y never conclude with my gode will , " &c .
SHILLIN,11.003.144

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide ayen , " Ye didde theron as right a wise man , "
SHILLIN,11.003.145

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departyd , &c . SHILLIN,11.003.146

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The morun Saterday y came to Westminster to kepe my day as hit is
aboveseid . SHILLIN,11.003.147

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y spake with my lorde Chaunceller . SHILLIN,11.003.148

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He adjorned hit over yn to Soneday , and afterward fro Soneday yn to
Moneday ; SHILLIN,11.003.149

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for the Justises dyned with the Maier of London that Sonday .
SHILLIN,11.003.150

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Moneday y maier , <P_12> Bluet , Hody , Dourissh , Germyn and
Speere with me come to Lambeth to my lord , SHILLIN,12.003.151

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther was at that day $at $te {TEXT:atte} dyner with my lord the ij.
chif justises , SHILLIN,12.003.152

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we appered before them ; and for oure party advers Kys ,
Hengston , More , Wode and Wolston . SHILLIN,12.003.153

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord hym self furst moved the mater to the Chif Justises , so that
the Chif Justise seide the mater stondeth thus : that as to the
compleyntis of the Bisshop Deane and Chapitre , hit is answered ,
repplyed and rejoyned , and as moche do therynne as may be do ;
SHILLIN,12.003.154

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as tochynge the compleyntes of the maier and comminalte , the
whiche them semeth grevous , beth not yet answered , and them semeth ,
&c . My lord Chauncellor therwith sodenly went right to the justises
bothen , SHILLIN,12.003.155

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and called to hym Nicholas Ayssheton at that tyme beynge there ,
SHILLIN,12.003.156

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and leide theire iiij. heddis negh to gedder SHILLIN,12.003.157

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and comyned to geder right privyly a grete while , SHILLIN,12.003.158

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alle as y conceve and as hit proved afterwardis that the answeris
to oure articulis not to be spoke of . SHILLIN,12.003.159

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After that my lorde toke his cheire SHILLIN,12.003.160

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the justises sate with hym , SHILLIN,12.003.161

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bothe parties with theire consell kneled before .
SHILLIN,12.003.162

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord asked how we last departed SHILLIN,12.003.163

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therapoun stomped a grete while . SHILLIN,12.003.164

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord asked the bokis . SHILLIN,12.003.165

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide that his were on Kent is warde . SHILLIN,12.003.166

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He asked of oure party advers theire bokis : SHILLIN,12.003.167

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they wolde be knawe of none yn no wyse . SHILLIN,12.003.168

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y mayer , seide yes , with moche more therto , &c. and how my
lordis commaundement was at London , and aggrementis at home yn the
chaptry hous , that oure articulis sholde be answered or we proceded
any ferder , y praynge my lorde that so , &c . SHILLIN,12.003.169

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord was loth therto and the justises bothe . SHILLIN,12.003.170

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seide furste merily of Vaspasianus . SHILLIN,12.003.171

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y seide that that was no mater of oure compleyntis ,
SHILLIN,12.003.172

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but y putte yn to prive {ED:prove_IN_DRAFT} what the cite was of olde
tyme ; SHILLIN,12.003.173

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then my lord seide some what strangely and sharpely that oure
articulis many were maters of noyse and desclaunder ,
SHILLIN,12.003.174

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and forto answers them hit wolde be cause of more <P_13> grucchynge and
yvell wyll . SHILLIN,13.003.175

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y seide , " Yf eny suche be , lete tham be leide apart ,
SHILLIN,13.003.176

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and tho that beth substancialle grete and grevous to us , and somme
cause and begynnyng of alle this debate , lete tham be so answered : "
SHILLIN,13.003.177

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y reherced iij. yn especiall , oone of the Dyme , another of the
feloun that toke the bysshoppis fe , and afterwarde of the churche ,
and the coroners ylette , &c. and of the toure on the bisshoppis gardyn
, &c . SHILLIN,13.003.178

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The chif justise seyde as tochynge the articulis of bothe parties ,
that there were maters amendis to be made to ayther party , and that
were longe to do , and that hit myght be don as well after as before ,
and that he hadde sey somme of oure articulis ij. in especiall , oone
of the Deme , another of the feloun aboveseide ; SHILLIN,13.003.179

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide that us semed that they were grevous to us . Whereapoun my
lord spake of the bokis to us ayen ; SHILLIN,13.003.180

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y seide that my bokis were alle redy . SHILLIN,13.003.181

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And my lord bade to leye ham forth ; SHILLIN,13.003.182

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we didde the articulis . SHILLIN,13.003.183

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They were but litell y radde ne take kepe to . SHILLIN,13.003.184

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thenne as touchyng the deme , Hengston seide that he wolde right well
that the deme were payed with us , as hit aughte to be , and hath be of
olde tyme ; SHILLIN,13.003.185

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but we didde not so , SHILLIN,13.003.186

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but sette hit SHILLIN,13.003.187

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and called none of the bysshoppis tenantis to us . SHILLIN,13.003.188

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y saide nay , SHILLIN,13.003.189

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made a longe rehersall therof fro kyng Edwardis tyme ynto this dey
, how and under what fourme hit was don of olde tyme , how sithenes ,
and how now , and how late they sette with ynne tham self , and kept
the mony and yet kepeth , SHILLIN,13.003.190

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that sholde be well y proved . SHILLIN,13.003.191

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seide that as touchynge the settynge we were alle most
accordyd theryn . SHILLIN,13.003.192

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then seide Hengston lightly as touchynge settynge and kepyng of the
mony of the deme , hit shall be sone answered ; SHILLIN,13.003.193

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he menyng of Upton is tyme y wote right well , as y seide to yow at
home . SHILLIN,13.003.194

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde to Hengston as lightly ayen , " As sone hit sholde be repplied
and truly with the grace of god . " SHILLIN,13.003.195

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then my lord asked furste of that other party if they hadde full
auctorite and power and wolde consente to menys : SHILLIN,13.003.196

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they seide anone with <P_14> gode wille , yee for theire part .
SHILLIN,14.003.197

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde asked of me , Maier , if we wolde the same .
SHILLIN,14.003.198

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide as touchyng the power we hadde sufficiant and y nogh ;
SHILLIN,14.003.199

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as touchyng to menys , y bisoghte hym of his lordship that y myght go
apart to comyne with my felowship and oure conseill there at that tyme
; SHILLIN,14.003.200

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so y didde , SHILLIN,14.003.201

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yeaf an answere . SHILLIN,14.003.202

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hody hadde the wordis of power as above ; SHILLIN,14.003.203

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as touchyng the menys with this condicion that oure articulis were
answered , that we wolde aggre to suche menys as they lordis wolde rule
us to . SHILLIN,14.003.204

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Then hit was no more at that tyme but the articulis most be answered ;
SHILLIN,14.003.205

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as loth as they were to answere , and hadde no bokis as hit is
abovesayde . Then they aggreed ham to bryng yn the answere the morun .
SHILLIN,14.003.206

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide they hadde seide dyvers tymes that they hadde olde charters ,
evidences , and munymentis to ende the mater ; SHILLIN,14.003.207

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y seide if they so hadde to bryng ham yn , and but they were
answered to ende , &c . SHILLIN,14.003.208

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hengston seide moche and strongely because y seide they hadde suche
charters . SHILLIN,14.003.209

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide yee , SHILLIN,14.003.210

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and avowed hit well they seide so . SHILLIN,14.003.211

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide that they hadde olde recordis , &c . SHILLIN,14.003.212

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y saide as above . SHILLIN,14.003.213

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hengston honged sore to have a lete and a grete courte ,
SHILLIN,14.003.214

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y traversed hym ever , SHILLIN,14.003.215

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide to hym moche thynge , and yn especiall that they never hadde
instrument , SHILLIN,14.003.216

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and reherced what that belongeth to a lete . SHILLIN,14.003.217

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hengston seide but litell therto , SHILLIN,14.003.218

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but made wyse as thogh hit were yes ; SHILLIN,14.003.219

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but Wode seide that they hadde olde wrytinge to have hit ,
SHILLIN,14.003.220

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake no more at all that tyme . SHILLIN,14.003.221

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hengston seide openly that Radeford and he hadde communicacion at home
of this mater , and were well negh accorded ; SHILLIN,14.003.222

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lord seide , " Wolde god hit hadde be so , " and yet " Wolde hit
were so , for oure discharge . " SHILLIN,14.003.223

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y , Mayer , seide y knywe well and was spoke to of suche a
communicacion ; SHILLIN,14.003.224

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but what the privyte and the menyng was y myghte not knowe ,
SHILLIN,14.003.225

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf y hadde hit sholde have be never the werce but the better ;
SHILLIN,14.003.226

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we departed , stondyng a <P_15> fer fro my lorde ,
SHILLIN,15.003.227

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he asked wyne SHILLIN,15.003.228

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sende me his awne cuppe and to no moo . SHILLIN,15.003.229

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y wende right to my lord ayen before them alle , SHILLIN,15.003.230

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake with my lorde prively a grete whiles of divers maters , and
among other of thys blynde entrety that Hengston spake of , y seyynge
to my lorde verily that this blynde entrety growith of my lorde of
Excetre as y supposed . Wherfor and for as moche as Hengston seide yn
his presence that Radeforde and he were negh accorded : y bysoghte my
lorde , as me thoght his part was , and to ende the mater the rather to
knowe of the communicacion , &c . SHILLIN,15.003.231

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seide y moved hym right well and sholde have goddis blessyng
and his , SHILLIN,15.003.232

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide he wolde do so , &c . SHILLIN,15.003.233

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we toke oure leve SHILLIN,15.003.234

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and departed fro my lord and my lordis alle . SHILLIN,15.003.235

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord at this tyme didde me moche worsship , SHILLIN,15.003.236

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and openly yn the communicacion aboveseyde commended me for my gode
rule at home , and yn especiall for the grete favo=r= that y have do to
men of the churche , hongyng this debate ; SHILLIN,15.003.237

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and furthermore he of his awne mocion yn the communicacion aboveseid
spake openly of the letter that he send home to the bysshop by me ,
seiyng these wordes , SHILLIN,15.003.238

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" Maier , apon the communicacion that y hadde with yow here y send home
a letter by yow to my brother of Excetre , the whiche y hoped sholde
have do moche gode and cause of spede the rather ende of the mater . "
SHILLIN,15.003.239

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , " My lorde , that is true , SHILLIN,15.003.240

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y have do my due diligent part therto , after youre commaundement
by my trauthe . " SHILLIN,15.003.241

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde more to Kys these wordis , SHILLIN,15.003.242

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" Kis , ye seide to me at home that y didde and seide moche thynge more
there then my lorddis commaundement was , SHILLIN,15.003.243

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
sey ye here be fore my lorde what hit was ; SHILLIN,15.003.244

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y truste to God and my lorde is gode lordship that my lord will
avowe me on alle thyng that y didde and seide . " SHILLIN,15.003.245

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde sate stille a while , SHILLIN,15.003.246

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and Kys knelyng spake never a word , SHILLIN,15.003.247

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thus passed over . SHILLIN,15.003.248

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hengston among the maters abovesayd seyde moche more than is above
writyn as touchyng the towre that stont on the bysshoppis gardyn ,
seiyng that that towre stode upon the bisshoppis grounde , and the
bisshop <P_16> sum tyme hadde his prison yn that towre , and that we
repaired hit never , as is write on oure articulis : SHILLIN,16.003.249

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$at $te {TEXT:atte} last hit was seide by their party that parcell of
the towre stode upon the bisshoppis grounde as hit appereth openly
there ; they menyng by a wall and kernellis stondynge withoute the
towre and thiknys of the towne walle , toward the bisshoppis gardyn and
annexed to the towre and towne wallis , &c . SHILLIN,16.003.250

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The morun tuysday al Halwyn yeven y receyved the answeris to oure
articulis at Westminster of the whiche y sende yow a true copy , yn the
whiche articulis as hit appereth they have spatte out the uttmyst and
worste venym that they cowde seye or thynke by me ; SHILLIN,16.003.251

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y blessed be God hit is nother felony , ne treson , ne grete trespas ,
SHILLIN,16.003.252

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thogh hit hadde be , so they wolde have don , and werce yf they
cowde : SHILLIN,16.003.253

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as for trawthe of the mater that tocheth me , meny worthy man
stondeth on the same cas SHILLIN,16.003.254

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have do moche werce than ever y didde , thogh that be to me none
exscuse . SHILLIN,16.003.255

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As touchyng the grete venym that they menyth of my lyvyng , y may and
purpose be at my purge , as y may right well apon my sawle of alle
wymmen alyve excepte oone , and of hire righte a grete while ;
SHILLIN,16.003.256

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
therfor y take right noght by SHILLIN,16.003.257

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sey sadly si recte vivas , &.c . SHILLIN,16.003.258

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and am right mery SHILLIN,16.003.259

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and fare right well , ever thankyng God and myn awne purse .
SHILLIN,16.003.260

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And y liyng on my bedde $at $te {TEXT:atte} writyng of this right yerly
, myryly syngyng a myry song , SHILLIN,16.003.261

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that ys this , SHILLIN,16.003.262

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Come no more at oure hous , SHILLIN,16.003.263

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
come , SHILLIN,16.003.264

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
come , SHILLIN,16.003.265

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
come . SHILLIN,16.003.266

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y woll not dye nor for sorowe ne for anger , but be myry and fare right
well , while y have mony ; SHILLIN,16.003.267

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but that ys and like to be scarce with me , considerynge the bisynesse
and coste that y have hadde : and like to have : SHILLIN,16.003.268

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet y hadde with me xx li . and more by my trauthe ; wherof of
trauthe not right moche y spende yet , but like &c . SHILLIN,16.003.269

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Constre ye what ye will . SHILLIN,16.003.270

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , Thomas Montagew sholde sende me xj li. and odde mony as he wote
well and can telle yowe : SHILLIN,16.003.271

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y supposed that John Germyn sholde {ED:ORIGINALLY_wolde} have
broght to me all most x li. all this of myne awne gode ; wherof <P_17>
cometh to me no peny . Wherfor y sende home to yow $at $tis
{TEXT:attis} tyme William Hampton , berer of this writyng , for this
cause most specially that ye , how that ever ye do , sende me xx li. yn
hast , as ye wolle the spede of youre mater and welfare of the cite , y
not shamed but pleased $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme ; and that ye faill
yn no wyse , mervaillyng moche , for as moche as y departed fro yow
with oute eny mony of youris , that ye ne hadde sende to me sithenesse
some mony by Germyn , Kyrton , or some other man , &c .
SHILLIN,17.003.272

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forthermore as tochyng the seide answeris , y pray yow that they be
well redely avysely and distinctely over radde and the substance of
them right well understonde , and most speciall the furste articule ,
the whiche ys most and right harde to answere , and that oure Recorder
have knoweliche of all thyng that y have write home yf he be here as y
suppose $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme , and but yf he be , to sende home
to hym in hast ; so that y have youre conceyt witte and entente to
repplye to the seide answeris , and to the furste most specyally ,
whiche is derke to my conceyte as yet ; SHILLIN,17.003.273

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but y truste to God hit shall be right well with youre gode enformacion
and helpe therto : to whiche entent y sende yow a rolle yn the whiche
is conteyned copies of Domus Dey , copy of Eyris , of charters and
other thynges that is necessary to be seye yn makyng of thes
repplicacions . SHILLIN,17.003.274

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y can no more $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme , SHILLIN,17.003.275

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but y pray you to be not wery to over rede hire and se all the writyng
that y have sende home to yow $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme ;
SHILLIN,17.003.276

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf ye be , no mervaill thogh y be wery , &c . SHILLIN,17.003.277

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and God be w=t= yow . SHILLIN,17.003.278

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y-writen at London yn alle Sawlyn day afore day yn hast .
SHILLIN,17.003.279

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , y pray you to sende me the blak rolle whiche shall be delyvered
to yow by Thomas Montegow , by William Hampton berer of this writyng ,
the which is a man true ynogh as y truste and suppose and hath borwys
for his office , SHILLIN,17.003.280

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_003:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
lete them be pryvy to , yf yow , that hit is to be do .
SHILLIN,17.003.281

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_004> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_18>

{ED:V._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._LONDON,_SAT._11_NOV._1447._DRAFT_LE TTER.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I grete you well alle , doyng yow to understonde that y am at London as
y have write to yow afore this tyme , &c . SHILLIN,18.004.282

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as touchyng the laboure and spede of oure comyn mater sithen y
wrote last to yow , y was at Lambeth with my lorde on Sonday next after
alle Halwyn day SHILLIN,18.004.283

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake with hym at gode leisure and yn gode tyme and well disposed .
SHILLIN,18.004.284

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Among other thynges y asked <em> ... </em> at dey and how we sholde be
demened to brynge yn oure repplicacions , SHILLIN,18.004.285

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he seyde " Come the morun Monedey <em> ... </em> the love of god , "
SHILLIN,18.004.286

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde the tyme was to shorte , SHILLIN,18.004.287

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and prayed hym of Wendysdey ; SHILLIN,18.004.288

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y enfourmed hym <em> of the </em> grete malice venym that they have
spatte to me yn theire answeris as hit appereth yn a copy that y sende
to yow of . SHILLIN,18.004.289

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seide , " Alagge alagge , why wolde they do so ?
SHILLIN,18.004.290

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y woll seye right sharpely to ham therfor and y nogh , "
SHILLIN,18.004.291

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and commaunded me to bryng the answeris to hym the morun at Westminster
, SHILLIN,18.004.292

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that he wolde amende hit w=t= his awne hondis , &c .
SHILLIN,18.004.293

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so y departed , SHILLIN,18.004.294

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and mette w=t= hym that morun yn the escheco=r= chamber ,
SHILLIN,18.004.295

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as sone as ever he saw me a ferre , he called me to hym
SHILLIN,18.004.296

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked the seide answere , SHILLIN,18.004.297

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he rased hit as hit plesed hym w=t= his owne handys , oure party
advers w=t= theire counsell beyng present and yvell plesed and payde
therwith , SHILLIN,18.004.298

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lorde was to tham right sadde SHILLIN,18.004.299

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
ne wolde hire ham speke no worde , SHILLIN,18.004.300

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but spake to the chif Justyse Fortescu SHILLIN,18.004.301

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and prayed hym to be w=t= hym that morun $at $te {TEXT:atte} mete to
comyne of oure mater , SHILLIN,18.004.302

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yeaf no dey to that other <P_19> party ne to me to be there
SHILLIN,19.004.303

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed . SHILLIN,19.004.304

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The morun tuysdey y came to my lorde at Westminster ayen
SHILLIN,19.004.305

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked yf he wolde commaunde me eny thyng to do that dey ,
SHILLIN,19.004.306

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he seide yee , to be w=t= hym that after mete to comyne as hit is
aboveseide . SHILLIN,19.004.307

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , " My lorde oure repplicacions beth not yet alle redy ne mygh
not be for shortenesse of tyme thogh y sholde dye therfor ,
SHILLIN,19.004.308

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet y hadde waked nyghte and dey . " SHILLIN,19.004.309

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide hit was right yvell y do yf hit myght otherwise have be ,
SHILLIN,19.004.310

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and commaunded me not fealle but kepe my dey , that after mete :
SHILLIN,19.004.311

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so y didde and with me Dourissh and Speare , and for that other
party Kys , Hengston , More , Wode , and Orcharde , a greet barre .
SHILLIN,19.004.312

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Furste my lorde asked how we departed laste . SHILLIN,19.004.313

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Hit was seyde apoune the answerys of the Bysshop , Deane , and Chapitre
, put yn and we to replye . SHILLIN,19.004.314

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde , " My lorde , oure repplicacions beth not yet fully redy bot
anon to oon and that oon almost as hit appereth here aredy to shewe . "
SHILLIN,19.004.315

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde and the Justyse seyde no force to shewe and ryght meny resons
why . SHILLIN,19.004.316

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde yes , SHILLIN,19.004.317

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made resons sympelly as y cowde ; SHILLIN,19.004.318

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so hit was graunted that y sholde bryng ham yn , &c .
SHILLIN,19.004.319

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seyde that he wolde sende for the bokys that y have write to
yow of yn Kent ys warde : SHILLIN,19.004.320

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
then he bade that other party goo a part SHILLIN,19.004.321

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and comyned w=t= my seyde felowship and me nigh by an oure ,
SHILLIN,19.004.322

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he was right mery SHILLIN,19.004.323

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and comyned meny dyvers maters bothe-1 of disporte and sadnesse :
SHILLIN,19.004.324

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
furste of dysporte of Bysshop Stafford ys tyme when my lord was there ,
SHILLIN,19.004.325

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and among other y spake to my lorde yn dysporte of the arest of S=r=
Thomas Gogh and of Hugh Luccays $at $te {TEXT:atte} Denys place , and
what favo=r= y had do and had no thanke and of other thyngys as come yn
to my mynde . SHILLIN,19.004.326

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He cowde telle us how Germyn toke the churche +te day of eleccion , &c
. SHILLIN,19.004.327

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide <em> ... </em> therof a disporte , and that Germyn putte his
fynger yn his ye and wepte , SHILLIN,19.004.328

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
also y t <em> ... </em> e most sadly wyse . SHILLIN,19.004.329

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
$At $te {TEXT:Atte} last fyll to mater of sadnesse , SHILLIN,19.004.330

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they spake of Goddys hous Seynt Peter ys churche of Excetre ,
SHILLIN,19.004.331

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lorde spake of his house , his halle , and the Justyse the same
, how <P_20> loth they wolde be to make arestys theryn ,
SHILLIN,20.004.332

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyde that seynt Peter ys churche was Goddis hous and his halle ,
&c . SHILLIN,20.004.333

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made meny resons to bryng yn abstynce of arestys .
SHILLIN,20.004.334

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They were answered as God wolde geve us grace . SHILLIN,20.004.335

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Douryssh didde well his part ; SHILLIN,20.004.336

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nerthelez all the longage bot hit were the lesse was by twene my lorde
Chaunceller the Justyse and me . SHILLIN,20.004.337

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde Chaunceller wolde that y sholde myve of menys .
SHILLIN,20.004.338

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde , savyng his commaundement , that y cowde not theryn ;
SHILLIN,20.004.339

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hit was not my part : SHILLIN,20.004.340

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then he hym self and the Justyse moved of menys dyvers ,
SHILLIN,20.004.341

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and $at $te {TEXT:atte} {TEXT:the} laste my lorde moved of this mene to
forbere arestys of alle men of habyte and theyre servantys , famylyars
, and bailliffs , withynne the churche and cimetere at alle tymes , &c
. SHILLIN,20.004.342

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Douryssh acquytted hym well , SHILLIN,20.004.343

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and leyde meny myschyffys , &c . SHILLIN,20.004.344

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde therto also as y cowde sympelly , SHILLIN,20.004.345

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then y reherced to hym of the last accorde of the suberbys withoute
Esteyeate and what abstynance was of courtesy y graunted at that tyme ,
&c . SHILLIN,20.004.346

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y conceyved that my lorde wolde move of no nyre mene SHILLIN,20.004.347

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and then y seyde to hym thus : SHILLIN,20.004.348

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" My lorde , y beseke you of youre gode lordship to have me exscu <em>
... </em> to move or aggre to eny mene <em> ... </em> y have speke with
my felowship at home or they here with me . " SHILLIN,20.004.349

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Tham thoghte y seyde reso <em> ... </em> hadde right moche longage of
the Bysshoppis fe , and specyally of the vyw and of the Bysshoppis
Court what court he hadde and sholde have : SHILLIN,20.004.350

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
here of was right moche longage and reson prove and contra .
SHILLIN,20.004.351

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y hilde myn awne . SHILLIN,20.004.352

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y hadde maters y nogh , &c . SHILLIN,20.004.353

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My seyde lordys bothe seyde that thay hadde olde recordys and evydences
to prove their content . SHILLIN,20.004.354

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord hym self spake derkely of right olde charters the whiche y as
ever have supposed right well ; SHILLIN,20.004.355

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
so y said , " My lorde , y have hurde of suche thyngis ,
SHILLIN,20.004.356

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot y sawe hit never , praying yow yf eny suche thyng be , that they
may be shewed and seyn , and bot yf hit $may $be {TEXT:maybe} answered
ellys so to make an ende , " &c . SHILLIN,20.004.357

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde conjoured me to make an ende of this mater SHILLIN,20.004.358

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf y so didde y sholde be cronycled . SHILLIN,20.004.359

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde , " My lorde , y have don my <P_21> part as y truste to God ye
shall knawe SHILLIN,21.004.360

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wolle reporte as fer as y can may and thar do after youre
commaundement . " SHILLIN,21.004.361

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y conjoured my lorde ayen SHILLIN,21.004.362

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyde these wordys , SHILLIN,21.004.363

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" My lorde , ye beth lorde under hevyn , excepte the kyng , that the
Cite of Excetre have most feyth hope and truste theryn ,
SHILLIN,21.004.364

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and have fulle power to make an ende , SHILLIN,21.004.365

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bysekyng you and as y dar requyre yow , se the ryght SHILLIN,21.004.366

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and lete hit never passe yo=r= hondes bot so to make an ende , "
SHILLIN,21.004.367

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made us go a part SHILLIN,21.004.368

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and called that other party . SHILLIN,21.004.369

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They were with hym bote ryght a litell while SHILLIN,21.004.370

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and called us yn ayen , SHILLIN,21.004.371

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bade that other go apart , SHILLIN,21.004.372

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyde to us that they hadde comyned wyth that other party ,
SHILLIN,21.004.373

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and they seyn moche that they woll abyde apoun theire right , and shewe
theire forseyde evydence to prove hit . SHILLIN,21.004.374

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seyde , " My lorde , " as y have aboveseyde , &c . SHILLIN,21.004.375

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seyde , " Mayer , ye seye right well , SHILLIN,21.004.376

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we woll do and precede , " SHILLIN,21.004.377

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so we all departed sine die , &c . SHILLIN,21.004.378

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Bot sythenys y have be w=t= my lorde dyvers tymes SHILLIN,21.004.379

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and now have a day , SHILLIN,21.004.380

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that other party to be before my seide lordis the morun Sonedey
apon the makyng of this letter ; they to shewe ther evydences as y
suppose . SHILLIN,21.004.381

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What they meneth that they woll abyde apon theire right and shew theire
evydence constre ye . SHILLIN,21.004.382

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Gode and gentell longage and shere y have of that other party , and
that they will abyde the rule of the lordys , &c. and that the lordys
purpose to make an ende , &c . SHILLIN,21.004.383

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bote y fere therof bot the courte be so hard against us ,
SHILLIN,21.004.384

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
therfor to speke wyth the nywe shyrf y sette hit grete wysedome so hit
be by soche a mene as be knowe noght fro us for drede .
SHILLIN,21.004.385

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Certe hit be seyde that that ys the cause of the breche , &c .
SHILLIN,21.004.386

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for they have labored strongly SHILLIN,21.004.387

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_004:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and sayeth nay , &c . SHILLIN,21.004.388

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_005> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_22>

{ED:VI._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._LONDON_?NOV._OR_DEC._1447._DRAFT_L ETTER.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worthy siris y grete yow well alle ; doyng you to understonde as
touchyng the laboure and spede of oure mater that Dourissh and Speere
hadde be w=t= my lord on Soneday next before my comyng and hadde ther
right gode chere of my lord and other SHILLIN,22.005.389

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and right <em> ... </em> so spedde there yn the beste wyse at +t=t=
tyme as the mater stondeth , SHILLIN,22.005.390

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yn especyall as tochyng the commaundement the whiche y reported at
home , nywe bondis to be made and enseled at home to entrete yn to
Candel masse and lenger yf +te parties myght so accorde to breve the
mater to the lordis hondis ; SHILLIN,22.005.391

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that we myght not accorde therof to be remytted to the lordes and
they so to make an ende ; of the whiche commaundement my lorde
remembred hym right well therof as well as the Chif Justise ,
SHILLIN,22.005.392

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lord avowed me well therof SHILLIN,22.005.393

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and was right well pleased of all my laboure at home y-reported to hym
by Thomas Dourissh and Speere yn the beste wyse , my lorde seyng of me
that y was never worthy to be called , that y was a godeman wyse and
well do my part , after his commaundement $at $tis {TEXT:attis} tyme
and shold have goddes blessyng and his , and whan that ever y come to
be well come to hym , as the seide Dourissh and Speere reported to me ;
SHILLIN,22.005.394

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also they spake to hym of a sute like to be take by +te B. D. and
C. &c . SHILLIN,22.005.395

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord answered bot litell therto at that tyme , SHILLIN,22.005.396

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot bade ham to awayte apoun hym that morun at Westminster
SHILLIN,22.005.397

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed . SHILLIN,22.005.398

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ayenst whiche tyme the seide Dourissh and Speere right wysely ordeyned
counsell Yong <P_23> and Beef , SHILLIN,23.005.399

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so came yn before my lord Chaunceller the morun Moneday ,
SHILLIN,23.005.400

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and nywe moved hym w=t= moche longage as tochyng the sute aboveseide .
SHILLIN,23.005.401

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lorde seyde he myght not werne tham +te comyn lawe ,
SHILLIN,23.005.402

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot he seide right feith fully and sadly he wolde consell ham the
contrary SHILLIN,23.005.403

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and commaunded to awayte apon hym and +te Chif Justise beyng togeder .
A rule to be sette , &c . SHILLIN,23.005.404

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so departed SHILLIN,23.005.405

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and stont yet . SHILLIN,23.005.406

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Furthermore y do you to understonde y come to London on tuysdey , so
+tt y wolde have be w=t= my lord +tt same dey tymely y nogh afore mete
; SHILLIN,23.005.407

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot I taried and yet tary because of +te buk horn +tt was boght or y
went and forth before at Stoklond or y departed fro home as Germyn ,
that never legh , tolde to me verily w=t= grete othis ; the whiche came
not yet , me to right grete anger and discomfort by my trauthe ,
SHILLIN,23.005.408

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the cause +t=t= hit was boght for myche like to be lost ;
SHILLIN,23.005.409

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hit hadde be a gode mene and order after spekyng and communication
aboveseid , the buk horn to have be presented , and y to have come
there after , &c. and so to have sped moche the better :
SHILLIN,23.005.410

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but now hit is like to faille to hyndryng . SHILLIN,23.005.411

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so y have helpe ynogh abakward and but a litell forthward as hit at
alle tyme proveth and appereth . SHILLIN,23.005.412

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y pray you specially to thanke moche t <em> ... </em> gentill Germyn
Quasi duceret euge euge <font> Germyn </font> of his governaunce $at
$tis {TEXT:attis} tyme , id male gaude Germyn . SHILLIN,23.005.413

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nothelez {ED:I_know} right well he woll ascuse hym right well by thike
fals harlot his carioure , and the carioure yn like wyse by the seide
Germyn , SHILLIN,23.005.414

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so I may say ait latro ad latronem and inter scabella duo anus
labitur humo . SHILLIN,23.005.415

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Cristes curse have they bothe , SHILLIN,23.005.416

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seye ye amen non sine merito , SHILLIN,23.005.417

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and bot ye dar sey so , thynke so , SHILLIN,23.005.418

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
thynke so . SHILLIN,23.005.419

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_005:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also y charge Germyn under rule and commaundement of J. Coteler my
lutenant , +t=t= he do that he can do , braule , bragge and brace , lye
and swere well to , and yn especiall +t=t= +te stretes be right clene
and specialle the litell lane yn the bak side be nethe the flessh folde
yeate , for ther lieth many oxen hedes and bonys that they be removed
away for the nonys ayenst my comyng as sone as y may by cokkis bonys .
SHILLIN,23.005.420

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_006> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_24>

{ED:VII._TO_ONE_OF_THE_BISHOP'S_COUNSEL._14_DEC._1447._DRA FT_LETTER.}


AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshipfull sir , y recommaunde me to yow . SHILLIN,24.006.421

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Like yow to be remembred of the speche and communicacion +tt was late
betwene yow and me at Westminster before my lorde Chif Justise and also
what he seide and how that y conjured yow and ye conjured me ayen , and
alle to the best entent to alle parties as y hope to God , trustyng
that ye buth and woll be the same man as there , or better yf ye better
may , and y the same after my sympell power by my trauthe : apon the
whiche communicacion as y seide to yow that y wolde , and as ye seide
my part was to spake with my lord Chaunceller , &c . SHILLIN,24.006.422

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and afterward Maister Rogger Kys and y were before my two seid lordis
to knowe of a rule and a departyng home , &c. Whas rule and
commaundement as y conceved was this , to make and ensele nywe bondis
yn to Candelmasse next comyng , and lenger yf the parties wolde at oure
comyng home ; and yn the mene tyme to entrete at home to shorte the
mater to their hondes ; and that we myght not accorde therof , they to
make an ende , the whiche hath ever be my will and laboure y take God
to wytnesse , and yet shall be . Wherapon y consideryng the rule and
commaundement of the lordes and the entent of +te communicacion betwene
yow and me abovesaide , y sende to yow at this tyme praying yow to
considre the same , with more that hit is bot a short and a bysy tyme
consyderyng the grete parties and maters , with the circumstance and
grete and longe communicacion that is like to be . Wherfor y pray yow
to prefixe place day and tyme as ye woll resonabilly , and that as sone
as ye may godely , the rather the levere , and ye shall be all redy and
wyth alle <P_25> thoo that longeth to be there , for oure party un
failled ; so that noo cause of tarying $shall $be {TEXT:shallbe} founde
yn oure party with the grace of God : praying yow the same , &c .
SHILLIN,25.006.423

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for ye may fully conceve +tt my felows and y wold fayne have a gode
ende and pees , prayng you to applie yo=r= god will and favo=r= to the
same . SHILLIN,25.006.424

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And how hit may please you to do in +t=s= , y pray you to $sende hit me
yn writyng SHILLIN,25.006.425

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and alle shall be well w=t= +t=e= grace of God , whiche have yow yn
kepyng . SHILLIN,25.006.426

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amen . SHILLIN,25.006.427

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_006:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at Exeter the thursday <em> next </em> after Sent Lucie .
SHILLIN,25.006.428

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_007> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_DOWRISH> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_25>

{ED:VIII._TO_DOWRISH._EXETER,_WEDNESDAY,_EVE_OF_ST._THOMAS
_THE_APOSTLE,_DEC._20,_1447.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Worshipfull ser , y recommaunde me un to yow ; doyng yow to
understonde that as touchyng the grete maters yn debate by twene my
lord the Bysshop of Excetre the Deane and the Chapiter ther , and the
Maier and Comminalte of the seide Cite , the whiche maters at London
this last term passed , by comaundement of the lordis ys put yn rule as
hit appereth by a letter the whiche y have sende to William Hengston ,
wherof y sende to yow a copy ; as well as of dyvers other bullis of
supplicacions by the seide Maier and <P_26> Comminalte y putte yn be
fore the seide lordis . The whiche copies all y pray yow avysely to
over rede and well understonde after the commaundement and rule
aboveseide . SHILLIN,26.007.429

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And after the gode will , prayer , fourme , effecte , desire , and
entent of the seide Maier and Comminalte comprehended yn the seide
letter and bullis , to applie your gode will and to do your tendre and
diligent labour to helpe to make a gode ende , SHILLIN,26.007.430

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that all my feloship and y pray yow right hertly . And yn especyall
that ye be oon of thoo pryncipall endifferently to entrete ther ynne
that most gode may do ther yn , and with yow Radeforde and Hengston ,
and so that William Beef be oon with yow by your speciall meene to be
brogh yn , for pleasur and the better to ende the mater hardly with the
grace of God . SHILLIN,26.007.431

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye may constre moche thyng &c. bot this aboveseide thus don ,
SHILLIN,26.007.432

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y dowte noght , bot truste to God verily to have a gode ende and pees
with the grace of God , whiche have yow ynh is kepyng .
SHILLIN,26.007.433

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amen . SHILLIN,26.007.434

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:DOWRISH:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_007:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at Excetre on Wendisdey yn the vigill of Seynt Thomas the
Apostell . SHILLIN,26.007.435

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_008> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDMUND_LACEY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_26>

{ED:IX._TO_THE_BISHOP._EXETER,_24_DEC._1447._DRAFT_LETTER.
}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right Worshipfull and Reverend Fader yn God and gode lorde , y
recommaunde me un to your right gode and gracyous lordship .
SHILLIN,26.008.436

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please hit your gode and gracious lordship to have yn knowliche <P_27>
as tochyng the grete maters yn variance betwene yo=r= right gode and
gracious lordship the Deane and Chapiter of yo=r= Cathedrall Churche of
the Cite of Exceter and the Maier and the Comminalte of the seide Cite
, the which maters by yo=r= menys so labored un to the highnesse of our
soverayn lorde the Kyng was broght yn and so by longe tyme hath honged
and yet hongeth yn compremys be fore the lordis . The whiche {TEXT:by}
the seide lordis this last terme as y conceyved thus ruled , and
commaunded nywe bondis to be made and enseled to entrete yn to
Candelmasse and lenger yf the parties myght so aggre and accorde at
their comyng home ; and yn the mene tyme to entrete at home to shorte
the mater to their hondis , and that we myght not accorde therof they
to make an ende ; SHILLIN,27.008.437

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that by longe tyme hath be my lorde Chauncelleris commaundement as
y knawe right well , and as hit proveth and appereth by a letter by hym
late to yow sende , the whiche letter he this terme avowed well for myn
excuse your conseill beyng present , and as y seid yn yo=r= presence yn
the Chapetry hous of yo=r= Cathedrall Churche of Excetre . The whiche
rule and commaundement the seid Maier and Comminalte fully aggreed ham
for their part and were all redy to fulfille hit at London and so buth
yet her at home , and shall be yn all wyse , or eny other resonable
entrety that may be moved or stured or by yow commaunded , so hit be
knowed to the pleasure of my seid lords aboveseid , praying yow and
yo=r= parties and yow most specially of your gode and gracious lordship
to yeve your gode will and applie yo=r= favo=r= to conforme to the same
; considryng verily that we wold right fayne have a gode ende with yow
as lawe , right , reson , and gode consience requiren , with all
favo=r= desired resonable that by our part may be shewed or don , and
to that is called your fe , most specially bysekyng yo=r= gode and
gracious lordship to be amytted therto , SHILLIN,27.008.438

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for hit was never our will to putte that yn debate ne to despute the
right therof , SHILLIN,27.008.439

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but as we have be forced therto by yo=r= Articulis of Complayntes and
other actes of the same , or elles to lese our rig {ED:ht} , &c . Also
hit was never known ne seide bot that the seide fe was a thyng by him
self , and the seide Churche and Cimitere <P_28> another thyng by him
self , as ye have supposed and claymed and allegged by two the furst
divers articulis therof made yn your furst articulis of compleynts ,
withoute that yo=r= Cathedrall Churche and Cimitere be parcell of the
seid fe or annexed therto , as hit is and shall be well proved by
evident writyng , witnesse , and other wyse . SHILLIN,28.008.440

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But now late this last terme ye have supposed and leyde the seid fee
Churche and Cimitere to be conjoyntly contrary to yo=r= furst clayme ,
as hit openly appereth yn your furst articulis of yo=r= provys to have
a colo=r= to the seide Churche and Cimitere by the seide fe , &c. , as
hit is right well conceyved , SHILLIN,28.008.441

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therto ye have aleyed for yo=r= prove the boke of domysdey , the
whiche is no prove , SHILLIN,28.008.442

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that we have SHILLIN,28.008.443

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shall comytte yn to the grete wysedomys of the lords abovseid .
SHILLIN,28.008.444

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But we truste to God , savyng yo=r= gode lordshippe , the same boke
shall prove our entent as hit is proved and pleynly appereth yn our
furst answer to the seide same articule of y=r= provys . The whiche
with meny other thyngs shall be redy to be shewed before yo=r= gode
lordships yf hit please you . SHILLIN,28.008.445

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
But what conclusion that ever ther folwe we trustyng to God to have
yo=r= gode lordship , we woll be demened resonabilly with all favo=r=
to the pleasur of your gode lordship as hit is aboveseid , and of the
seid fe most specially , ever besekyng you and as we dar requyr you
that ye woll applie yo=r= blessed favo=r= and benyvolence to the gode
ende and appeasynge of this mater , after the will , desir , forme ,
effecte and entente of dyvers bullis of supplicacons by us y put and to
be put yn be fore the lordes of this mater , of the whiche bullis I
sende to you copies by the berers of this my pore writyng , whiche
copies please hit yo=r= gode and gracious lordship at yo=r= leysure to
over se and fully conceyve , the rather to have a gode ende as we
truste to God : SHILLIN,28.008.446

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and like you to knowe that y have write to Copleston and Hengeston
SHILLIN,28.008.447

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y spoke with Radeford of this maters for myn exscuse to be reported
above be fore the lords , so that no cause of taryng shall be founde yn
our party , but ever all redye , &c . SHILLIN,28.008.448

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Bysekyng you of yo=r= right gode and gracious lordship , as y have my
lord Chaunceller , to have me exscused of myn non comyng to you <P_29>
as my dute hath be and is . SHILLIN,29.008.449

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Considryng verily if y myght knowe <em> ... </em> lordships pleasur and
commaundement therto , the whiche y wolde full fayne knowe
SHILLIN,29.008.450

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and come grete joye and comfort to alle your puple and gostly children
of the Cite of Exceter and me most specially ; SHILLIN,29.008.451

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and how hit may please your gode lordeship to do and commaunde us yn
the rule and commaundement of the lords aboveseide to have yn knowliche
by the berers of this my symple writyng at yo=r= pleasur .
SHILLIN,29.008.452

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please yo=r= gode and gracious lordship to have yn rembrance that I and
all the Comminalte of the seide Cite ben your gostly children and yo=r=
men at yo=r= commaundement and ever shall be by Godd 's mercy , whiche
preserve yo=r= gode and gracious lordship and yo=r= blessed faderhed yn
his high mercy . SHILLIN,29.008.453

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_008:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at Exceter the xxiiii day of Decembre . By yo=r= awne servant
and bedman , J. Shillyngford . SHILLIN,29.008.454

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_009> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_2>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_29>

{ED:X._FROM_SHILLINGFORD_TO_HIS_DEPUTY._24_DEC.,_1447.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After the recommendacion had yn the most godely wyse , ye shall seye to
my lord that the Maier yeveth yow yn commaundement to seye , that my
lorde Chaunceller greteth hym well and sendeth hym the letter ,
bysekyng hym of his gode lordship avisely to overse hit : wherapon as
ye suppose after the entent of the letter that ye most speke myche more
with him , also bysekyng him of his gode lordship <P_30> $at $te
{TEXT:atte} reverence of my lorde Chaunceller to yeve leyser and
attendence therto ; seyyng also that hit is the Maier is part to have
come hym self with the letter and exscuse , &c. , and then how
dangerous hit was to make eny worthy man to come to hym att tyme for
strange chere at Clist , &c. , and that the Maier exscused hym ayenst
my seide lorde Chaunceller to brynge the letter , &c. , and promytted
to sende of the most worthiest as he hath , &c . SHILLIN,30.009.455

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Item , that ye commende my lorde Chaunceller yn the most beste and
trusty wyse , and that hit is his commaundement and other lordes , and
longe tyme hath be , that we sholde entrete at home , the whiche hath
be the Maier is grete laboure the grete part of all this yere , and
myghte noght be excepted therto , SHILLIN,30.009.456

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he hath reported before the lordes as well as the furst coming
to hym to Clist to seke his gode lordeship and pees for his exscuse :
SHILLIN,30.009.457

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yet the Mayer and the Cite now aswell as before this tyme by
commaundement of the lordis and by their awne gode wyll prayeth and
desireth that the matter myght be disclosed before his gode lordship ,
the Maier , the Recorder with other of the Cite at his pleser beyng
present , trustyng to God verely al for the best , and myche the rather
and the better to have a gode ende as lawe , reson , and right gode
conscience requyren , he to fele alle the maters , and so as ye suppose
to be his awne juge , and ende myche of the maters by his awne
conscience , we knawing his blessednysse and gode conscience , &c .
SHILLIN,30.009.458

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Forthermore , ye shall seye as for the Maier wher my seyde lorde hath
seide , and sende hym word that he is not the man that he wend that he
had be , the which worde is to hym right hevy , and seith that he shall
fynde hym the same oo man and same true man as he hath be ,
SHILLIN,30.009.459

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so he trusteth to God he is take and knawe among the lordes above ;
SHILLIN,30.009.460

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but thogh he and other labor for the right of the Cite w=t= true menys
as he hath do and none otherwise as hit $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} well
proved , hit is no cause , &c. , SHILLIN,30.009.461

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
they beth sworn therto as he is to the right of his benefice .
SHILLIN,30.009.462

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_009:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Make ye myche of this matter and of the deme suying , and of the short
chere at Cliste , and the gode chere that the Maier had yn his Closet ,
bryngyng Coteler <P_31> to his gode grace , y yet praying the same yf y
may be herde , and that ye desyre his gode leysur now , and but yf ye
mowe now to come to hym ayen . SHILLIN,31.009.463

<Q_SHI_A_1447_T_HWEBBER> <L_SHILLIN_010> <A_H_WEBBER> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAME_UNKNOWN_14> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_--->

<P_33>

{ED:XII._WEBBER,_PRIEST,_ON_BEHALF_OF_THE_BISHOP,_TO_THE_RECORDER_[?
]._CHUDLEGH,_28_DEC._1447.}

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My right reverend trusty and singular maister , after dewe and entierly
recommendacion with all worship and reverence , my lord the Bysshop of
Excetre , of whas commaundement y write un to you at this tyme ,
thanketh your kyndenesse of your gode and well conceyved letter that ye
sende unto hym on Sonday last passed , the whiche day sone apon that he
receyved your letter SHILLIN,33.010.464

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he receyved a long and right a diffuse letter y send to hym by the
Mayer of Excetre remyttyng my seide lord in the same yn to a long rolle
of supplicacions by hym made ther a fore , yn the whiche letters ye as
yn youre by the enformacion of the seyde Mayer , and the seide Mayer as
yn his letters conceyved , $at $te {TEXT:atte} laste terme that hit was
appoynted by my lord of Canterbury and the two Chyf Justises , that the
maters be twene my seide lord and the Deane and the Chapitre of his
Churche of Excetre and the seyde Maier and the Comminalte of the said
Cite hongyng sholde be entreted here at home yn this vacacon , with
other larger words of the same in the Mayer 's letters comprehended .
SHILLIN,33.010.465

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Trewly , S=r= , what the departyng and how at the laste terme was a
fore my seid lord the Chaunceller and the seide Justises my seide lorde
was a fore SHILLIN,33.010.466

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and is fully enfourmed therof . SHILLIN,33.010.467

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Notheles for as moche as ye fynde the seide Maier and his feloship of
the Cite disiderable and aggreyng a communicacion to be hadde after the
effecte that ye commyned with my seid lord sum <P_34> tyme at Excetre ,
and yn maner so the seide Maier writeth hym self to my seid lord , with
maters of pretens contrarye articulis and other allegauncies and
remissions yn to meny diffuse supplicacions , seyng furdermore that he
hath writen to John Copleston and William Hendiston for the same
communicacion to be hadde for the gode ende and peasyng of the seide
maters , of the whiche my seide lorde seith that hit pleaseth hym that
a communicacion myght be hadde yn haste , SHILLIN,34.010.468

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he woll do the seide John Copleston and William Hendeston to be at
Excetre with other as well of the Chapitre is counseill as of his awne
$at $te {TEXT:atte} next session of peas . So that the seide
communicacion be no longe delaye to hyndryng of his Churche and of his
right , SHILLIN,34.010.469

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for trewly he woll noo long delayes theron , bot to do his avail whan
he shall se his tyme . SHILLIN,34.010.470

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf hit so be that ther shall be y-offered suche weyes that may be
to the gode ende and peasying of the seide maters withoute hertyng and
delayng of the right of his Churche , he woll applie hym self therto
with gode will : SHILLIN,34.010.471

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and where ye wrote yn to my seide lorde that he moved to yow that
William Hendeston and ye a certyn day limited by yow and by my seid
lord for to commune for the gode ende to be hadde yn the seide maters ,
and he kepte not his day , my seid lord seith that ye knowe well by
certefyyng of right worthy men that he myght not be there at that day
for certyn causes that they certefied yow therof resonable .
SHILLIN,34.010.472

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Notheles sone apon he came to yow SHILLIN,34.010.473

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ye and he communed to geder , the whiche communicacion was be case
and litell fruite theron . SHILLIN,34.010.474

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he seith that sith he came home from Courte he communed with yow of
dyvers maters , SHILLIN,34.010.475

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot ye moved noo thyng of the seide maters . SHILLIN,34.010.476

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therfor my seide lord supposed ye wolde noo more therof .
SHILLIN,34.010.477

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Notheles my seide lord , seyng your gode will , whiche ben of counseill
with his Churche , wyth hym , and with the Maier of later date ,
thanketh yow hertely of your gode letter and also the Maier for his
godeley letters , SHILLIN,34.010.478

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and with the grace of God John a Copleston and William Hendeston and
other , as hit is aboveseid
{COM:IN_THE_EDITION_TWO_DOTS_ABOVE_THE_O_IN_aboveseid} , shall be a
redy to commune with yow under the <P_35> fourme as hit is aboveseid to
the effectuall gode ende with oute grete delay , SHILLIN,35.010.479

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for trewly y ther sey yow secretely , on grete truste that y have
founde yn your person ever , my seid lord woll not be long delayed yn
noowise , as y veryly conceyve by hym , SHILLIN,35.010.480

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and therfor y wolde for the reverence of God and ease of the pore puple
and for your grete worship that ye myght be cause of the gode ende and
peasyng of the seide maters . SHILLIN,35.010.481

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf y myght se that hit myght take effectuall and a spedefull ende ,
y sey yow feithfully y shall do my part truly therto with the grace of
God , the which have yow ever yn his gracyous kepyng ,
SHILLIN,35.010.482

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my seid lord praied yow that ye wolle notise his wyll aboveseid to
the seid Maier and to such other as your worthy and appreved discrecion
semyth best for be don . SHILLIN,35.010.483

AUTHOR:H_WEBBER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAME_UNKNOWN_14:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_010:M4:1447:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y-write at Chuddelegh the xxviii day of December . By your owne Prest ,
H. Webber , dwellyng with the Bysshop of Excetr . SHILLIN,35.010.484

<Q_SHI_A_1448_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_011> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_35>

{ED:XIII._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._LONDON,_2_FEB._1447-8._DRAFT_LET TER.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worthy siris , y grete yow well ; doyng yow to understonde that
on Candlemasse yeve y receyved a letter y send to me by Harry Dobyn ,
whiche letter yn my sympell conceyt y yn alle thynges have well
understonde , SHILLIN,35.011.485

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y am and was before that letter fully remembred of all thynges that
is comprehended theryn , as specially of Stokewode , as well as more of
the entrety some tyme moved by Sir William Bonevill , and of the
communycacion ther <P_36> upon hadde at London , and specially yn the
Cloyster at Paulys , the right grete of the parties , with theire
conseille , and moche other puple beyng present ; SHILLIN,36.011.486

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
what was comyned , moved , stured , desired , and by whom ; how hit was
procured and shortly throwen of ; how hit was conceyved , reported ,
and take there and ellis where , and what yvell wyll , waywardnys , and
unkyndnesse was assigned , and what was promysed and what was do
therfore , ye knowe right well , and Richard Druell specially : some
wherof ye and y commyned therof the last hole day of my beyng at home
at Exceter yn my parler ; SHILLIN,36.011.487

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
constre ye alle thynges what y mene . SHILLIN,36.011.488

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
What is to do furthermore y can not yet be redely avysed by conseill ,
SHILLIN,36.011.489

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot y most doe as y se the mater woll be ruled , and as y can , may ,
and dar do , eschewyng variance , breche , throwyng of , and
yndyngnacion specially , SHILLIN,36.011.490

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so y shall by the grace of God , whiche have yow yn his kepyng .
SHILLIN,36.011.491

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_011:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Amen . SHILLIN,36.011.492

<Q_SHI_A_1448_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_012> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_36>

{ED:XIV._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._3_FEB._1447-8._ORIGINAL_DRAFT._TH
E_EMENDED_WORDS_ARE_FILLED_IN_FROM_THE_DRAFT.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> Worthy siris , y grete </em> yow well alle , doyng yow to
understonde that the bukhorn came to me bot on Candelmasse yeven <em>
afternone somewhat </em> better late than never , whiche bukhorn was
presented to my lord on Candelmasse day by the <em> morun .
SHILLIN,36.012.493

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
How hit </em> was presented y-take , and what thankys and better
thankis y nogh therfor Harry Dobyn can telle <em> yow of some </em>
what by mowthe . SHILLIN,36.012.494

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That day was y <P_37> at Lambeth with my lorde at masse ,
SHILLIN,37.012.495

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and offered my candelle <em> to my lord is </em> blessed hond , y
knelyng adoun offeryng my candell . SHILLIN,37.012.496

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
My lord with laghyng chere upon me seide hertely , " Graunt mercy ,
Mayer , " &c . SHILLIN,37.012.497

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That same day y abode there to mete by my seide lordis commaundement ;
SHILLIN,37.012.498

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> y mette </em> with my lorde $at $te {TEXT:atte} high table ende
comyng to meteward , SHILLIN,37.012.499

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as sone as ever he saw me he <em> toke me </em> fast by the honde
and thankis ynogh to : SHILLIN,37.012.500

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y seide to my seid lorde hit was to symple a thyng considryng his
astate to seye onys graunt mercy , SHILLIN,37.012.501

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot yf y hadde be at home at this faire he sholde have had better stuf
and other thynges , &c . SHILLIN,37.012.502

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y went forth with hym to the myddis of the halle , he stondyng yn his
astate ayenst the fire a grete whiles , and ij bisshoppis , the ij Chif
Justises , and other lordis , knyghtes , and squyers , and other comyn
puple grete multitude , the halle fulle , alle stondyng a far apart fro
hym , y knelyng by hym , SHILLIN,37.012.503

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and after recommendacion y moved hym of oure mater shortly as tyme
asked , and yn especiall of the ij Chif Justises beyng there , bysekyng
hym or their departyng to calle ham to hym for oure mater ;
SHILLIN,37.012.504

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he seid hertly with right $gode $will {TEXT:godewill} ,
SHILLIN,37.012.505

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and prayed God that ther myght be right a gode ende ;
SHILLIN,37.012.506

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y thanked hym SHILLIN,37.012.507

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide with his gode lordship we were almost thurgh and at an ende ,
y seyyng also by these menys " My lord , y have herd yow seye that ye
and the ij Chif Justises of a rule of the Churche and Cimitere were
negh accorded . " SHILLIN,37.012.508

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide hertely , " Yee for gode . " SHILLIN,37.012.509

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , " My lord , as touchyng the fee Radford and Coplestone beth
nigh accorded at home , whiche two accordis y knowe we buth alle most
thurgh : " the whiche seyyng alle he toke on the best wyse and was well
pleased therwith , SHILLIN,37.012.510

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed fro hym at that tyme . SHILLIN,37.012.511

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Mete y doun , my lord toke his chamber , the astatis and other with hym
. SHILLIN,37.012.512

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y put me yn presse and to my lorde SHILLIN,37.012.513

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and spake with hym right a grete while , so that he called the Justises
to hym and moved of oure mater . SHILLIN,37.012.514

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y wolde have seide , &c . SHILLIN,37.012.515

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Chif Justise toke upon hym to seye , &c . SHILLIN,37.012.516

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide moche thyng for oure part , SHILLIN,37.012.517

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and quytte hym a gode man to us . SHILLIN,37.012.518

<P_38>

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Furst he reherced how we were broght yn be fore tham by the Kynges
commaundement , how we wolde have be dysmyssed and discharged fro tham
, and be $at $te {TEXT:atte} comyn lawe and myght not , and how hit
hath be labored ayenst us duryng the tyme of this entrety , so that
ther is a Shirf y made and the contrey embraced ayenst <em> oure </em>
entent and thus we stode at myschif , &c . SHILLIN,38.012.519

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The other Chif Justise seide well therto also , SHILLIN,38.012.520

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and my lord toke hit <em> welle </em> seyyng , " Hit may not be so ;
SHILLIN,38.012.521

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
assigne ye a tyme the parties to be called , a rule to be sette , so
that hit shold be amendyd : " SHILLIN,38.012.522

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed as for more communicacion of oure mater .
SHILLIN,38.012.523

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Afterward y spake with the ij=de= Chif Justise there a grete while , to
whom oure mater myche was rawe . SHILLIN,38.012.524

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He understode SHILLIN,38.012.525

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke my seyyng and ynformacion <em> yn the moste </em> beste wise ,
SHILLIN,38.012.526

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so seid therto for oure part . SHILLIN,38.012.527

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
<em> After this we toke our leve , SHILLIN,38.012.528

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y yn my leve takyng seyyng <em> these </em> wordis ,
SHILLIN,38.012.529

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
" My lord , have mercy and pyty apoun that pore Cite , Jesus vidit
civitatem et flevit super eam ; " SHILLIN,38.012.530

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
also bysekyng him to yeve me leve to sywe to his gode lordship to have
the mater refourmed as hit is aboveseide ; SHILLIN,38.012.531

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
he seide y sholde be right welle come what tyme that ever y come ,
SHILLIN,38.012.532

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed thens SHILLIN,38.012.533

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and stonde this day , &c. SHILLIN,38.012.534

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That nyght right late Harry <em> Brok </em> broght me a copy of a
recorde whiche y sende to yow , to the whiche recorde with avys of
conseill y thyng <em> $boldely to </em> appere forthwith this terme ,
&c . SHILLIN,38.012.535

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and y hope hit shall be right well as the cas stoondeth , and better
than hit was desired and like to have be $at $te {TEXT:atte} last
entrety at home , with the grace of God , whiche have you in his kepyng
. SHILLIN,38.012.536

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Writen at London the morun after Candelmasse day . By John Shillingford
, M' of Excetre . SHILLIN,38.012.537

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:INDORSED.} After makyng of this letter y receyved a Copy of a
writte ayenst John Hulle , as <em> $here folowyth </em> .
SHILLIN,38.012.538

<P_39>

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_012:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{COM:LATIN_OMITTED} {ED:ADDRESSED.} To John Coteler , lutenant , Thomas
Cook , John Germyn , Walter Pope , Richard Druell , and other , this
letter be delyvered , &c . SHILLIN,39.012.539

<Q_SHI_D_1448_T_JKEMP> <L_SHILLIN_013> <A_JOHN_KEMP> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1375?> <R_EDMUND_LACEY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_--->

<P_41>

{ED:XVI._ARCHBISHOP_OF_CANTERBURY_TO_THE_BISHOP_OF_EXETER._LAMBETH,
_16_FEB.,_1447-8,}

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Ryght Worshipfull and wyth all my herte right welbeloved Brother , I
grete you well full hertly . SHILLIN,41.013.540

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And suppose ye be well remembrid howe that matier whiche longe tyme
hath abiden yn travers bitwixte yow , your Brethren and myn , your
Deane and Chapitre of yowre churche of Excetre , and the Mayer and the
Comminalte of the same , by speciall comaundement of the Kyng was
commytted and putte to the rule of the two chief Justises and me ,
wheryn as God knowyth they and I have laboured long tyme , and
specially the last term yn our effectuall wyse for the gode of pease
and sure conclusion to growe therof , bryngyng the matier by daylie
labour to grete ripenesse the soner therby to have concluded theryn :
SHILLIN,41.013.541

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And for as moche as we myght not approchyng the ende of the terme
further labour theryn , hit was comyned and desyred nywe bondis to be
made and enselid at home by bothe parties unto Candelmasse last passed
trustyng the matier to have be comyned and yn partie entreted at home .
SHILLIN,41.013.542

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And as nowe we wold have preceded theryn to somme gode conclusion ;
SHILLIN,41.013.543

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and the matier is attained at large yn the comyn lawe :
SHILLIN,41.013.544

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
We praye yow as yet that , notwithstondyng havyng consideracion the
seide Mayer and Comminalte have att all tymes and yet ben as they seyen
redy to obey and abide all entrety , yow like to putte the matier to
take soner effectuall ende by entrety and yntercommunicacion than by
rigour of the lawe . SHILLIN,41.013.545

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And yf ther be eny poynte of grete difficultee or travers , the seide
Juges and I woll putte to owr labour to the remedy <P_42> and redresse
therof with all our hertis and power . SHILLIN,42.013.546

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And almyghty Jhesu have yow ever yn his keeping . SHILLIN,42.013.547

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Writen at Lamehithe the xvj daye of February , SHILLIN,42.013.548

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
RECIPIENT:EDMUND_LACEY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_013:M4:1448:UNKNOWN:OTHER
J. Archebysshop of Caunterbury . SHILLIN,42.013.549

<Q_SHI_D_1447_T_JKEMP> <L_SHILLIN_014> <A_JOHN_KEMP> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1375?> <R_RICHARD_NUTON[?]> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_42>

{ED:XVII._THE_CHANCELLOR_TO_THE_CHIEF_JUSTICE.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Worshipfull and right welbeloved Frend , - Y grete yow well ,
SHILLIN,42.014.550

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and doute not ye be well remembred of that mater whiche hath longe tyme
abiden yn travers betwixte my Brother of Excestre the Deane and
Chapitre and the Maier and the Comminalte of Excetre , wheryn ye for
your part have hadde grete laboure ; SHILLIN,42.014.551

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
y pray yow , considryng the mater is attainyd at large in the comyn
lawe not likely by that mene to be ended lightly , as your wysedom
knowyth well , yow like at this tyme yn your beyng ther to move and
enduce my seid Brother and alle parties to putte the mater yn entrety
at home , trustyng as me semyth fully wyth more charite and lasse coste
the mater to take sonner ende by that mene than by processe or rigour
of lawe withoute your dysplase . SHILLIN,42.014.552

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And almyghty Jhesu have yow yn his kepyng . SHILLIN,42.014.553

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Writen , &c . SHILLIN,42.014.554

AUTHOR:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:72?
RECIPIENT:RICHARD_NUTON[?]:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_014:M4:1447:UNKNOWN:OTHER
The bishop of Canterbury unto the lord Cheff Justice for an intrety to
be had . SHILLIN,42.014.555

<Q_SHI_A_1448_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_015> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_KEMP> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1375?>

<P_50>

{ED:XIX._TO_THE_CHANCELLOR._SOON_AFTER_13_MARCH,_1447-8._D
RAFT_LETTER.}


AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
LETTER:SHILLIN_015:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Please hit your gode and gracious lordship to have yn your blessid
remembraunce as touchyng the grete matiers yn debate betweene the right
reverend fader in God and blessed man in him self and my right gode
lord yn tyme hath be and yut throgh your gracious lordship I truste to
God shal be , Edmond Bisshop of Exceter , the Deane and Chapitre of the
same , and the Mayer and Cominalte yo=r= owne puple and poore bedemen
of the seid Cite of Excetre , how hit pleased yo=r= gode and gracious
lordshippe this same terme of Seynt Hillary to write a lettre unto my
seid lord the Bysshop of Excetre , to have the seyd matier yn trete at
home as hit was bi your lordship comaunded at Mighelmasse terme ,
whiche lettre ye yeve me yn special comaundement to bere my self to my
seid lord of Excetre ; after which comaundement I toke hit apoun me and
so did , where , through favoure of yo=r= gode lordship , I ferid wel ,
had gode chere , and was yn the best wise right wel come , and al thing
comprehendid yn yo=r= lettris yn ful godely wise take , obeyed , assent
, and agreed . SHILLIN,50.015.556

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
LETTER:SHILLIN_015:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Radford and Copleston to be at Excetre to trete yn the matyer ;
SHILLIN,50.015.557

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
LETTER:SHILLIN_015:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so thei were at tyme of assises , at whiche tyme S=r= Richard
Neuton , chief Justise of the Comun plece , called the parties before
him , and the seid John Copston and N. Radford , SHILLIN,50.015.558

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
LETTER:SHILLIN_015:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there he hardly did indifferently his true tendre and diligent
labo=r= and parte for the gode appesyng and welfare of bothe parties yn
the seid mater , after the effect and extent of y=e= blessid lettre fro
your lordship to him send by me . <P_51> Whereapon day was assigned on
Wensday next after Passion Sonday <em> ... </em> the seid Copleston and
Radford to intrete of this mater ; at whiche day the seid Copston and
Radford , and I the seyd Mayor , with my felowship , were at Kyrton
before my seyd <em> ... </em> Bisshop of Excetre , my lorde of
Devonshire at that tyme beyng present . SHILLIN,51.015.559

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_KEMP:MALE:_:1375?:73?
LETTER:SHILLIN_015:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And there and at that tyme a reule was mouthid and had accordyng to the
forme of a condicion of an obligation , whereof I have send to yo=r=
lordship a copy yn this lettre , to whiche bothe parties at that tyme
aggreed and assentid ham , a special communication had before with the
seid justise by me the seyd <em> ... </em> my counseil and felowship ;
trustying to God and to yo=r= gode lordship to have right a gode ende .
And , yf noe , ever to resorte to your gode lordship accordant to the
kynges comaundement , by Goddis mercy , whiche preserve yo=r= gode
lordship in his high mercy . SHILLIN,51.015.560

<Q_SHI_A_1448_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_016> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_65>

{ED:XXV._SHILLINGFORD_TO_HIS_FELLOWS._[?]APRIL_1448._DRAFT_LETTE.}

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worthy sirs , y grete yow well alle , doyng yow to understonde that y
was at Wyndesore to London wardis on seynt George is day , and there
taried almost all that day , and cowde not hyre ne knowe <P_66> there
of noo thyng comprehended yn the letter y sende home to yow by William
Duke , ne of none other thyng , bot all ther as well as hit was wont to
be , and as y suppose with laboure and other thyng that longeth therto
, yf men wyll better may be . SHILLIN,66.016.561

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The Wendisday y came to London , where was moche longage of oure comyn
mater , and specially of this laste grete entrety at home , how hit was
broken up , and for right litell thyng , and all yn oure defaute .
SHILLIN,66.016.562

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Thus hit was y seid that accorde was hadde here at home by the seide
entrety , that the Bisshop sholde have his fee churche and cimitere
parcell of the same , as he claymeth generally , and generall municion
yn the churche , we to have right noght to don ne make none arestis
withynne his fee , bot yn the cimitere to make arrestis , excepte of
the Bysshop and his mayny , chanons , and alle men of habite ,
SHILLIN,66.016.563

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for we wolde noght aggre bot to have power to arreste chanons men
servants familiars withynne the cimitere , was only cause of brekyng up
of the seide entrety . SHILLIN,66.016.564

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y of purpose mette with S=r= John Wolston , of wham y suppose growe all
this untrue longage , SHILLIN,66.016.565

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked hym , &c . SHILLIN,66.016.566

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seid every word , and that the accorde was suche as hit is
aboveseide , with more that ther was writyng therof , and by what menys
y write , by the hondis of John More , yn presence of my lord of
Devonshire , $at $te {TEXT:atte} Blak Freris at Excetre , all redy to
shewe ; SHILLIN,66.016.567

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y seide if any suche writyng were knowe and proved by my seide Lorde
and the other arbitrous , we moste nedys and with right gode will wolde
abide hit , or any other reporte that they wolde make .
SHILLIN,66.016.568

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This same day Wendisday , as sone as y was come to towne ayenst mete
tyme , my lord Chaunceller send for me yn hast . SHILLIN,66.016.569

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y came to hym in Lambyth , wher y founde the ii Chif Justises of purpos
moche y suppose : of wham alle and specially of my lord y hadde right
gode chere , never better , and right well come yn the best wise .
SHILLIN,66.016.570

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y spake with my seide lord and the Justises , apart fro my Conseill , a
grete whiles . SHILLIN,66.016.571

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
They moved me to knowe of the entrety and departyng at home .
SHILLIN,66.016.572

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y prayed my lordes <P_67> to have my Conseill to seye for me .
SHILLIN,67.016.573

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He graunted hit to me . SHILLIN,67.016.574

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
S=r= John Wolston was yn the utter chamber , SHILLIN,67.016.575

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wolde come noo nyre , SHILLIN,67.016.576

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for as moche as Hengston was not there hit was enjorned over yn to
the morun at Westminster , yn the Escheker Chamber , wher Hengston
reported to my seid lord as S=r= John Wolston hath as hit is aboveseid
, excepte of writyng . SHILLIN,67.016.577

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y answered and seide y knywe noght therof , nee of noo such accorde ,
ne cowde make noo reporte , SHILLIN,67.016.578

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and asked of hym what knowliche he hadde of that he reported .
SHILLIN,67.016.579

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide as he herde hit reported . SHILLIN,67.016.580

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y asked of wham . SHILLIN,67.016.581

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide the comyn voys of the Cite . SHILLIN,67.016.582

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide of none bot of soche as were of theire part , and by tham self
. SHILLIN,67.016.583

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_016:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seid forthermore that y was enformed by S=r= John Walston ther beyng
present that ther was writyng of that reporte , as hit is aboveseide .
SHILLIN,67.016.584

<Q_SHI_A_1448_T_JSHILLINGFORD> <L_SHILLIN_017> <A_JOHN_SHILLINGFORD>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_1>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_67>

{ED:XXVI._TO_HIS_FELLOWS._[?]_24_MAY,_1448._DRAFT_LETTER.}
_@

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Worthy siris , ryght feyne ffrendis and ffelows , y grete yow well alle
, doyng yow to understonde that on Wendisday next after Corporis
Christi day , as ye knowe right well , after vj $at $te {TEXT:atte}
clokke yn the mornyng y rode oute of Exceter to London warde ;
SHILLIN,67.017.585

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Saterdey next ther after at vij $at $te {TEXT:atte} clokke by the
mornyng y came to London , and so to Westminster , SHILLIN,67.017.586

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and ther mette with my lord Chaunceller , he beyng yn right grete
bysyness ; SHILLIN,67.017.587

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
as sone as he sawe me seyde right hertely , " Mayer well come , "
SHILLIN,67.017.588

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and toke me by the honde , SHILLIN,67.017.589

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and made me right gode chere , SHILLIN,67.017.590

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so departed fro hym at that tyme . SHILLIN,67.017.591

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That day y hadde right grete bysynesse : SHILLIN,67.017.592

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
furst y went yn to the Escheco for oure mater of Exmouth ,
SHILLIN,67.017.593

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and there y spedde spede SHILLIN,67.017.594

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
can and may spede resonabylly well . SHILLIN,67.017.595

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That day on Westminster halle y mette <P_68> with S=r= John Wolston ,
and other of oure {ED:and} theire conseill , of wham alle y hadde gode
chere , SHILLIN,68.017.596

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and as they seide that y was right well come . SHILLIN,68.017.597

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Afterward y spake w=t= the chif Justis S=r= John Fortescu , goyng w=t=
hym homward , SHILLIN,68.017.598

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hadde with hym right muche gode longage and wordis of comfort .
SHILLIN,68.017.599

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
After this y spake with the chif justice S=r= Richard Nuton , thankyng
hym of his favo=r= the last terme , &c . SHILLIN,68.017.600

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He , a full gode man , seide he wolde do for me what he myght godely .
SHILLIN,68.017.601

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That day y comyned w=t= oure conseill of oure maters ,
SHILLIN,68.017.602

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hadde wordis of gode comfort to spede right well .
SHILLIN,68.017.603

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
That day after none y wold have be at Lambeth w=t= my lord ,
SHILLIN,68.017.604

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
bot y came not there because that Wolston was there that day .
SHILLIN,68.017.605

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The morun be tyme y came to my lord , SHILLIN,68.017.606

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and hadde hym at right godd short leyso=r= ; to wham y recommended you
all to hym yn the best maner that {in}_P y coude , thankyng hym of his
gode lordship , &c. praying contynuance at this tyme specially , and to
helpe that we myght have a gode ende by doyng after the kynges
commaundement , SHILLIN,68.017.607

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for elles we most to a triall , SHILLIN,68.017.608

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that were harde . SHILLIN,68.017.609

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He seide , " God hit forbede , SHILLIN,68.017.610

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
then sholde ye never love , SHILLIN,68.017.611

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and that were pyty , " SHILLIN,68.017.612

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and he seide he woll speke with the Chif Justise Fortescu , and +ten
another rule , &c . SHILLIN,68.017.613

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y thanked hym SHILLIN,68.017.614

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seide , " My lord , they take grete boldenesse of ij thynges , oon
of truste of the Shirf , another apon the lawe , SHILLIN,68.017.615

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
y truste to Gode other wyse than they shall fynde hit . "
SHILLIN,68.017.616

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also y seide to my lord that we hadde be yn debate by dyvers tymes ,
almost by tyme of viij=xx= yere , and that y coude never knowe fynde ne
rede that we ever toke a sute ayenst tham , but ever stonde yn defence
, as a bokeler player , and smyte never , and that y hadde to seye fro
you to hym that we were fully avysed , with leve of his gode lordeship
, onys to smyte , takyng a sute , for we hadde meny and dyvers causis ,
and they hadde none , bot that we wold no thyng do bote that his gode
lordship hadde know liche of , SHILLIN,68.017.617

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for we wold attempte hym yn no wyse . SHILLIN,68.017.618

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He thanked SHILLIN,68.017.619

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and seyde that he coude not blame us . SHILLIN,68.017.620

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Y seide , " My lord , thus we most beare , serve and defende , "
SHILLIN,68.017.621

AUTHOR:JOHN_SHILLINGFORD:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_1:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:SHILLIN_017:M4:1448:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
that not with stondyng that , we woll be all redy at all tyme to obeye
the kynges commaundement and his . SHILLIN,68.017.622
