<B_STOCKWE>

<Q_STC_A_1602_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_001> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,9>

{ED:NO._1602,_DECEMBER_1._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at his
house in Southampton . STOCKWE,I,9.001.1

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell ; I am not gladder of anythinge than that m=r=
Watson furnished me so fitlie as to satisfie you by m=r= Pedlie , by
whom you shall receive in monie eleven poundes sixteene shillinges ,
and a salt $cruet w=ch= cost fiftie seaven shillinges .
STOCKWE,I,9.001.2

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I much doubted least I should have beene disapointed ,
STOCKWE,I,9.001.3

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and beganne to grieve to thinke that you should have so iust cause to
suspect my care and affeccon to satisfie you : STOCKWE,I,9.001.4

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I thanke God I received it on saterdaie last and went <P_I,10>
presentlie and bespake yo=r= salt and sent to m=r= Pedlie to advertise
him thereof : who was w=th= me on saterdaie morning when I was more
then afraid I should not have sped so well . STOCKWE,I,10.001.5

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But am glad for your sake that it fell out so well as it did .
STOCKWE,I,10.001.6

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am desirous that yo=r= salt should like you as it doth me , who am
desirous to do all thinges that maie please you . STOCKWE,I,10.001.7

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall find the waight of it under the goldsmithes hand if you
uncover the bigger salt . STOCKWE,I,10.001.8

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=ir= , I thanke you for remembering me for my pipes and Tobacco .
STOCKWE,I,10.001.9

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I had thought they had bene so deare I would not have troubled you
so much as to have sent me pipes from Winchester . STOCKWE,I,10.001.10

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not see you unsatisfied for them , STOCKWE,I,10.001.11

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore charge you as you are a good husband to send me word what
the Tobacco cost <paren> w=ch= I have nowe tasted and finde it very
good </paren> , STOCKWE,I,10.001.12

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and desire you if you can have a pounde of it for xxx=s= or thereabouts
to buy me a pounde and send it to me ; or if you come at Christmas to
bring it w=th= you when you shall not faile to receive your monie for
this , the pipes and that too . STOCKWE,I,10.001.13

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane season I will remaine your debter . STOCKWE,I,10.001.14

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you secure your self that I <P_I,11> will not faile by the first
to acquaint my Lady w=th= all the proceedinges of S=t= Maries .
STOCKWE,I,11.001.15

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Capt=n= Rotherham is in towne , and retourning psentlie by whom <paren>
if no messenger goe sooner </paren> I will write at large of all your
honest care and painfull travaile . STOCKWE,I,11.001.16

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I shall be glad to heare of the recoverie of your health , w=ch= I
hartelie desire . STOCKWE,I,11.001.17

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so comend me to you and your wife , who is better then you .
STOCKWE,I,11.001.18

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I acquainted m=r= Fletewoode that you have not received the 5=li= of
m=r= Jackson who would not have you presse him for it in regard of his
paines and kindnes about S=r= Olivers buisenes . STOCKWE,I,11.001.19

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you therfore bare kindelie w=th= him . STOCKWE,I,11.001.20

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so againe w=th= my comendacons to you and m=rs= Stockwell , I
comend you to God . STOCKWE,I,11.001.21

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,11.001.22

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the first of december STOCKWE,I,11.001.23

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,11.001.24

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_001:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All are passing well in Ireland but Nick Kerby who is dead of his hurts
. STOCKWE,I,11.001.25

<Q_STC_A_1602_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_002> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,11>

{ED:NO._1602,_DEC._19._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_
@

{ED:ADDRESSED}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t= Maries nere
Southampton , these . STOCKWE,I,11.002.26

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : My old clothes shall serve me these holydaies
, And then <P_I,12> newe , if you send me the searge I intreated you to
send . STOCKWE,I,12.002.27

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubt not of your iudgement in the choice of it , STOCKWE,I,12.002.28

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
onely I desire you to be as well assured as you can that it be well
died to keepe collor . STOCKWE,I,12.002.29

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would not have troubled you w=th= lres nowe , but onely to accompanie
this bearer w=th= my kinde comendacons to you , w=ch= is more
certainlie delivered by writing then by wordes . STOCKWE,I,12.002.30

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His mocon I will desire you to favor as you may . STOCKWE,I,12.002.31

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall understand it from himself , And safelie yield to it anything
$you can perceive . STOCKWE,I,12.002.32

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If there be any doubt or question with yourself of it , I will do my
best to satisfie you in it when I shall understand it ether-2 by your
lres or your presence , w=ch= I have much desired . STOCKWE,I,12.002.33

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All the songs goes nowe . STOCKWE,I,12.002.34

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God send you a merry Christmas , w=ch= is all I can sing to you ,
STOCKWE,I,12.002.35

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but shall not this yeare saie to myself " make much of yourself :
STOCKWE,I,12.002.36

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} make so much of your self as you
should , gett one to make much of you . " STOCKWE,I,12.002.37

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Staie not till Easter . STOCKWE,I,12.002.38

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The weather is cold . STOCKWE,I,12.002.39

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comfort you w=th= a ... Perry morning and evening to purge melancholie
. STOCKWE,I,12.002.40

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Love your frends . STOCKWE,I,12.002.41

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse you & your children . STOCKWE,I,12.002.42

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Fare you well . STOCKWE,I,12.002.43

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,12.002.44

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xix=th= of december . STOCKWE,I,12.002.45

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_002:E2:1602:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your ever assured frend . {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,12.002.46

<Q_STC_A_1603_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_003> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,14>

{ED:NO._1603_[?],_OCTOBER._LETTER_FROM_SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

{ED:ADDRESSED}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
To my loving friend ca: Stockwell geve these . STOCKWE,I,14.003.47

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom Stocwell : will chandler and his mother hath bin w=th= me .
STOCKWE,I,14.003.48

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
he is nott married , STOCKWE,I,14.003.49

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and hath given me his woord nott to marry w=th=owt my advise or nott
att all as long as his grandmother liveth . STOCKWE,I,14.003.50

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I will give hyr forty marck=s= a year to mayntayn hym in hom pshe
{ED:?} , STOCKWE,I,14.003.51

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the next sommer will have him over if I stay in Irland as I hop to
do . STOCKWE,I,14.003.52

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this forty marks you most {ED:must} pay him quarterly , and hand over
and ... to him as to one I chiefly respect . STOCKWE,I,14.003.53

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and you must geve to my sister caltrope six pound a year moor for a
consideration betwen us . STOCKWE,I,14.003.54

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
agaynst the next half year you shall have order to receave fro my cosen
pemlok the half years rent of Tounehill , and so fro tym to tym from
hym when he hath receaved itt . STOCKWE,I,14.003.55

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
So the charge that nowe goes owt of saynt maries w=th= this newe
$reck=on=ing is <P_I,15> 212 pound , your alowance and all ;
STOCKWE,I,15.003.56

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
to my mother , to my sister , to my nephewe , STOCKWE,I,15.003.57

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
to youe and the charg I reckon att . STOCKWE,I,15.003.58

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
What the rec=t=orye {ED:?} will do I know nott , nor what my wiffe had
off you , STOCKWE,I,15.003.59

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
so this year may be short . STOCKWE,I,15.003.60

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Pray send me woord that we may be even , STOCKWE,I,15.003.61

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I have car that this should be performed , STOCKWE,I,15.003.62

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so I think you have to , for my nephewes good . STOCKWE,I,15.003.63

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And so I comend me hartely to youe and those that loveth us :
STOCKWE,I,15.003.64

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
fro crignford {ED:Craignford?} this satturday october
STOCKWE,I,15.003.65

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yo=r= assured frend {ED:SIGNED} Oliver Lambert . STOCKWE,I,15.003.66

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:43?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_003:E2:1603:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Will chandler most begin this michellmas quarter . STOCKWE,I,15.003.67

<Q_STC_C_1603_T_ELAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_004>
<A_ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_--->
<A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_--->
<R-DOB_--->

<P_I,15>

{ED:NO._1603,_DEC._30._LETTER_FROM_MRS._ELIZABETH_LAMBERT_TO_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my Loving Friend Thomas Stockwell at St maryes nere
Southampton geve these :- STOCKWE,I,15.004.68

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
Friend Stockwell , I Comend me unto you . STOCKWE,I,15.004.69

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
I have sent this berrer on purpose unto you For the Twentie pound due
unto me by S=r= oliver Lambart at Christmas Last . STOCKWE,I,15.004.70

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
I hartily praie you to make payment of the forsaid mony unto this
berrer who hath myne acquitance to deliver unto you for your discarge .
STOCKWE,I,15.004.71

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
I stand in ned of it STOCKWE,I,15.004.72

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
and tharfore I praie faile not to send it me w=t=hout <P_I,16> any
Farther troble and Charge to send for it or sustaine heandrenc for want
thereof . STOCKWE,I,16.004.73

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
so Expecting the Effecting of my desiers , I Comit you to godes holy
protection . STOCKWE,I,16.004.74

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
Ruskhan {ED:?} , STOCKWE,I,16.004.75

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
this xxx=tie= of decemb=r= STOCKWE,I,16.004.76

AUTHOR:ELIZABETH_LAMBERT[N.PAULET]:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_004:E2:1603:COPY:OTHER
Your Loving Friend {ED:SIGNED_WITH_HER_MARK} Elizabeth Lambert .
STOCKWE,I,16.004.77

<Q_STC_A_1604_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_005> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,16>

{ED:NO._1603/4,_MARCH,_6._LETTER_FROM_LADY_HESTER_LAMBERT_TO_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my loving frend Capten Stockewall at Soth hamtone
give thes : STOCKWE,I,16.005.78

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
honist Stocke wall {ED:BLANK} blame mee not that I thinke it strang
that I could nevar onese here from you sinse we came thanse .
STOCKWE,I,16.005.79

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
M=r= Lambart hath found much trobuls in his bisnies sinse hiscoming
ovar which hath mad him longer about his dispach of m=r= antonie than
hee expectide : STOCKWE,I,16.005.80

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
at the last M=r= Lambart hath sent all the monie for toune hill if my
fatharse not pament of the first some brecke not the boke .
STOCKWE,I,16.005.81

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
if it is done it tis but our on hapie fortune . STOCKWE,I,16.005.82

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I kno I ned not desiar you to be Carfull of out bisnis nor meg to
loucke to my pore rages {ED:rags} onder hur Charge for which I and M=r=
Lambert will not be forgittfull . STOCKWE,I,16.005.83

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my garden wall copse {ED:?} will comfort me which I asure myselfe is .
STOCKWE,I,16.005.84

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I hope you forgett not to see the hop gardene planted with the best
cheries and frutes you can gett with my oncalse walopes adwise .
STOCKWE,I,16.005.85

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this leaving all to M=r= antonie home {ED:whom} will advertis you more
at large . I $comend my selfe hartely to youre selfe and your wife and
STOCKWE,I,16.005.86

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dobline STOCKWE,I,16.005.87

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the vj=th= of marche STOCKWE,I,16.005.88

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_005:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yo=r= loving frand <em> Hester Lambert </em> . STOCKWE,I,16.005.89

<Q_STC_A_1604_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_006> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,17>

{ED:NO._1603/4,_MARCH_[?]._LETTER_FROM_SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my loving frend Thomas Stockwell .
STOCKWE,I,17.006.90

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom Stockwell , you finde how ill I have bin dealt w=th=all by my
father for Town hill . STOCKWE,I,17.006.91

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I am glad youe have the possession thereoff STOCKWE,I,17.006.92

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray see it be safly keapt and the tenant well bound therto :
STOCKWE,I,17.006.93

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I have sent money iff itt will be taken : STOCKWE,I,17.006.94

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
more I $can $not {TEXT:cannott} do , nor could nott being deceaved in
the trust I putt . STOCKWE,I,17.006.95

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
if will chandler will come to me he shall be welcome ,
STOCKWE,I,17.006.96

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and furnish hym heather to that end . STOCKWE,I,17.006.97

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
when I was in england my wiffs frinds wear agaynst his going w=th= me
fearing I would do to mutch for hym : STOCKWE,I,17.006.98

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
in despitt off any he shall be welcome to me STOCKWE,I,17.006.99

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I will mayntayn hym lick a gent=l=man , STOCKWE,I,17.006.100

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so tell hym . STOCKWE,I,17.006.101

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the rest I refer to M=r= Antony 's and your car who hath instructions
under my hand . STOCKWE,I,17.006.102

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
cond {ED:commend} me to yo=r=self yo=r= wiff and all that loveth us .
STOCKWE,I,17.006.103

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_006:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yo=r= owld and loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Oliver Lambert .
STOCKWE,I,17.006.104

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_007> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,21>

{ED:NO._1604,_JULY_4._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_
@

{ED:ADDRESSED}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To his very loving frend Captain Thomas Stockwell , at S=t= Maries
neere Southampton . STOCKWE,I,21.007.105

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : I received your lre after the <P_I,22> carier
was gone by reason you directed it to S=r= Will=m= Fleetewoodes house .
STOCKWE,I,22.007.106

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hereafter I pray you direct your lres to me at my lodging at m=r= Maule
his house in Shoe lane , STOCKWE,I,22.007.107

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and you shall have present answer . STOCKWE,I,22.007.108

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For satisfying of the widowe , you may deale with hir as you thinke
best . STOCKWE,I,22.007.109

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have gon through with the bargaine , procured the monie ,
STOCKWE,I,22.007.110

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and am this daie , God willing , going toward Basing to have the
writinges sealed , STOCKWE,I,22.007.111

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
so you may deale with her or any other as you thinke will be best for
S=r= Oliver his profitt , though I thinke it not fitt eyther to remove
the widowe or over presse hir , unlesse she be far from that you may
have of others . STOCKWE,I,22.007.112

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All my monie is cleane spent . STOCKWE,I,22.007.113

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can , I pray you send me v=li= by the next carier , and withall
how the sicknes is there , and whether M=r= Thomas Lambert and his wife
are removed theare as I heare they are . STOCKWE,I,22.007.114

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Mr. Robin Lambert and his wife meane to come downe with me ,
STOCKWE,I,22.007.115

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and because the speach of the sicknes in the towne is great , if it
will not be troublesome to you , they are desirous , and I doe in their
names desire you , that they may lie in the Chauntrie .
STOCKWE,I,22.007.116

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I think it will be a fortnight before I and they can come .
STOCKWE,I,22.007.117

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time I pray you if possiblie you can send me by the first
the some {ED:sum} above mentioned . STOCKWE,I,22.007.118

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so in hast , with my hartiest comendacons to M=rs= Stockwell ,
yourself , & all your frendes . I comend you to God .
STOCKWE,I,22.007.119

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,22.007.120

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this iiij=th= of July , . STOCKWE,I,22.007.121

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_007:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,22.007.122

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_008> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,22>

{ED:NO._1604,_JULY_14._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured and very loving frend Captaine Thomas
Stockwell at St. Maries neere the towne of Southampton theise d=r=
w=th= speede . STOCKWE,I,22.008.123

<P_I,23>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : The last weeke I wrote unto you in answer of
yours sent the weeke befor , and also to desire you if by any meanes
you could to furnish me w=th= five poundes . STOCKWE,I,23.008.124

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have paid my Lady Marquesse all the whole monie for Townehill
STOCKWE,I,23.008.125

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have the writinges sealed in my custodie . STOCKWE,I,23.008.126

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To request monie of S=r= Will=m= I am not willing ,
STOCKWE,I,23.008.127

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but rather chose if you be provided to intreat it of you , which I pray
you if you can to spare me . STOCKWE,I,23.008.128

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I desired also to understand the state of your towne for the sicknes ,
wherof there is here a great report , enough to terrifie me from coming
thither . STOCKWE,I,23.008.129

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Let me be resolved by your lres , I pray you , whether the Chauntrie be
in danger , and also if you can spare M=r= Lambert and his wife a
lodging there , whom if you can I will bring along with me , both for
good companie and also to satisfie their earnest desire .
STOCKWE,I,23.008.130

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I staie onely for your answer herein which so soone as I shall receive
I will hast thither . STOCKWE,I,23.008.131

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Joseph is not yet gone , nor likely to goe shortely , being by
mischance hurt , but God be thanked hart hoale . STOCKWE,I,23.008.132

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me hartely I pray you to M=rs= Stockwell and yourself , with all
other my frendes . STOCKWE,I,23.008.133

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so in hast I leave you , desiring the Almightie to preserve and
blesse you and yours in this time of visitacon . STOCKWE,I,23.008.134

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,23.008.135

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xiij=th= of July , . STOCKWE,I,23.008.136

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_008:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,23.008.137

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_009> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,23>

{ED:NO._1604,_JULY_21._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good and loving frend Captaine Thomas
Stockwell at S=t= Maries nere Southampton these d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,23.009.138

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : Because I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} heare from
you in answer of severall lres which heretofore I have written unto you
, I am fearefull least in the visitacon of that place some heavines or
other occasion hath hindered you . STOCKWE,I,23.009.139

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My hope is that God in his mercie will spare you STOCKWE,I,23.009.140

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and my praier shall be so for <P_I,24> you . STOCKWE,I,24.009.141

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But howsoever I make no question of your Christian and devout resolucon
with all humble patience to submitt your self to his divine power .
STOCKWE,I,24.009.142

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine lett me heare from you howe you and all yours doe ,
STOCKWE,I,24.009.143

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if possiblie you can to send me five poundes . STOCKWE,I,24.009.144

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heard within theise two daies out of Ireland , where all is well .
STOCKWE,I,24.009.145

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lady comends hir to you : STOCKWE,I,24.009.146

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so do I most hartilie , STOCKWE,I,24.009.147

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and as hartilie pray you to lett me hear from you by the first .
STOCKWE,I,24.009.148

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so comend you and yours to the blessing of God .
STOCKWE,I,24.009.149

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,24.009.150

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxj=th= of July , . STOCKWE,I,24.009.151

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
in hast . STOCKWE,I,24.009.152

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_009:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your ever loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,24.009.153

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_010> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,24>

{ED:NO._1604,_JULY_23._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his welbeloved frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere Southampton , theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,24.010.154

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : The newes of your sorowful losse came to my
eares before your lres came to my handes , STOCKWE,I,24.010.155

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But it being by uncertaine report I hoped it was untrue .
STOCKWE,I,24.010.156

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Being nowe to well assured therof , though I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
but grieve w=th= you , yet w=th=all in the affeccon of a frend , I doe
desire you , w=th= Christian patience to submitt your self to the
blessed providence of the highest , whose Love to those that love him
and patientlie beares the affliccon in justice and mercie he laieth on
them , is such and so great as that he recompenseth the patient bearing
of a small crosse in this life w=th= an infinite reward of a better .
STOCKWE,I,24.010.157

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His mercie to you is great in this , that he hath left you sweete
<P_I,25> babes to be both comfortes for the present and succors to your
latter age , from whome though he hath taken the mother , yet be
assured he will be a father . STOCKWE,I,25.010.158

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good swete Captaine Stockwell make use of that wisdome and iudgement he
hath bestowed on you , STOCKWE,I,25.010.159

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so yeald your willingnes to his power as that your obedience to his
will may move him in mercie to continnue those great blessinges he hath
graunted you , and to increase them . STOCKWE,I,25.010.160

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He so ordereth all thinges as is best for us . STOCKWE,I,25.010.161

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee $can $not {TEXT:cannot} reach into his iudgementes ;
STOCKWE,I,25.010.162

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
they are to deepe for us . STOCKWE,I,25.010.163

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But being assured by his fatherlie promise that all thinges worke for
the best to them that love him and trust in him , resolve your self
that even this <paren> I confesse a great wordlie crosse </paren> will
redound to your good . STOCKWE,I,25.010.164

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If he had seene it good for you , he would have lent hir to you longer
, STOCKWE,I,25.010.165

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in his wisdome , better knowing what was best for both , he hath
deprived you of hir comfort , that you might make him your onelie
comfort , w=ch= he will never take from you . STOCKWE,I,25.010.166

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am sorie I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} come w=th= such hast to you as
{with}_P I desire , and you request . STOCKWE,I,25.010.167

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My necessarie staie is to have the Fynes for Townehill and Shurley
dispatched , For the doing whereof I am so unfurnished as that I desire
you to send me the v=li= you write I should receive there , for that I
have use of it before I can come , and $can $not {TEXT:cannot} borrowe
so much here . STOCKWE,I,25.010.168

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If w=th=all you can send me a particular note of the groundes of
Townehill , howe manie acres there is of each sort , as howe manie of
arrable land , howe manie of pasture , howe many of woode , howe manie
of meadowe , and howe manie of heath , and so of all , you will further
me much . STOCKWE,I,25.010.169

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I seeke not an exact note , but by estimacon rather more then lesse .
STOCKWE,I,25.010.170

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
M=r= Jackson delivered me not yo=r= lres before the last carier was gon
w=th= my other , STOCKWE,I,25.010.171

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
elles you should have missed them and had theise . STOCKWE,I,25.010.172

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
With all my hart I comend me to you , STOCKWE,I,25.010.173

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and praie to the Almightie to blesse you and yours w=th= his heavenlie
blessing . STOCKWE,I,25.010.174

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,25.010.175

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 23 of July . STOCKWE,I,25.010.176

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_010:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend forever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,25.010.177

<Q_STC_A_1604_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_011> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,26>

{ED:NO._1604,_SEPTEMBER_[?]._LETTER_FROM_SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPT
AIN_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my loving Frend Ca: Thomas stocwell .
STOCKWE,I,26.011.178

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom I am sory for the loss off thy wiffe . STOCKWE,I,26.011.179

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yett itt is the way to be rich to have many wiffes .
STOCKWE,I,26.011.180

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
looke well befor you leape STOCKWE,I,26.011.181

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and catch a rich on or none . STOCKWE,I,26.011.182

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
good Tom be carfull off my woodes att Townhill STOCKWE,I,26.011.183

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and use the farm to the most profitt tell my wiffe coms over who
meaneth att the spring to start into england . STOCKWE,I,26.011.184

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
now lett no plase go free fro paying the tythes , being no moor
question betwen sherly and Saynt maries , STOCKWE,I,26.011.185

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lett me know what profitt you mack this year off sherly , that I
may see whether itt annswer my cosen lamberts report or no .
STOCKWE,I,26.011.186

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my wiffe expectes the making off her orchard this year , and such
thinges as you ar able to do . STOCKWE,I,26.011.187

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
you must send m=r= Antony the due att michellmas on Townhill farm to
dispatch his ocations tell I may send money into england w=ch= will
nott be tell michelmas . STOCKWE,I,26.011.188

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
besid many thankes for your car and travell , I will ever be thankfull
to youe STOCKWE,I,26.011.189

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_011:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and rest your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Ol: Lambert .
STOCKWE,I,26.011.190

<Q_STC_A_1604_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_012> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,26>

{ED:NO._1604,_SEPTEMBER._LETTER_FROM_LADY_HESTER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my verie good frende Capten Stockewall at hamtun give
these : STOCKWE,I,26.012.191

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
good stockewall I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} but greve to repete the lose
of my onist frend your wife , which next your selfe and childeren have
the gretest lose . STOCKWE,I,26.012.192

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
wee are the lordes and to retourne at his pleasur STOCKWE,I,26.012.193

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I am asured god will give a blessing to hur babes that had so onist
a mother : STOCKWE,I,26.012.194

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and if it plese god to bles me that <P_I,27> I may see England , hur
care of me shall not be for gotten to hur chillderen .
STOCKWE,I,27.012.195

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray be carfull of your selfe in so gret a contagon :
STOCKWE,I,27.012.196

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and let not the time slip for making the orcharde and those thinges
that you see nedefull a bout the house . STOCKWE,I,27.012.197

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I kno I nede not bede you to set those thinges onder your handes for
the best STOCKWE,I,27.012.198

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
therfor m=r= lambert lefse it all to your selfe . STOCKWE,I,27.012.199

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray if you can get that knafe temse STOCKWE,I,27.012.200

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and make him pay my monie or by inpresun . STOCKWE,I,27.012.201

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the som is xx=l= besides as much gould lase as cost x=l= which hee
coussend me of when I sent it by him into ingland .
STOCKWE,I,27.012.202

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I here by Joseph that my pese of cloth of silver is geven to the La:
markewise : STOCKWE,I,27.012.203

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but I hope it is not so becase I here not of it by your selfe .
STOCKWE,I,27.012.204

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I kno wee payed the most thay could demand STOCKWE,I,27.012.205

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and therfor I would be loth to lose it if to good porpose it were not
given and the la: markewise so exsept it : STOCKWE,I,27.012.206

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this with my prayarse to god for you and all yourse , I comend me
hartely to youe STOCKWE,I,27.012.207

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and rest your most asured frend {ED:SIGNED} Hester Lambert .
STOCKWE,I,27.012.208

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dene rath STOCKWE,I,27.012.209

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_012:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the .... of September . STOCKWE,I,27.012.210

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_013> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,27>

{ED:NO._1604,_AUG._7._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOC
KWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= - STOCKWE,I,27.013.211

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : If sooner I had bene furnished <paren> though
my Lady Marquesse staie here the coming of the Spanish embassador
</paren> , yet I would have made all thinges readie , and <P_I,28> have
beene w=th= you ere this . STOCKWE,I,28.013.212

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe I will goe in hand for my Dedimus potestatem for both fines and
hast downe to you as soone as it is dispatched , w=ch= I hope will be
by the begining of the next weeke . STOCKWE,I,28.013.213

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thanke you for the v=li= you sent by the carier w=ch= I have received
of him and given him my acquittance for it . STOCKWE,I,28.013.214

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I certified my Lady that m=r= Lambert cometh downe w=th= me to
Southampton howsoever it please God to dispose of us .
STOCKWE,I,28.013.215

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope you shall see us ere you receive any more lres from me if God be
so pleased . To whose mercie I comend you and us all .
STOCKWE,I,28.013.216

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,28.013.217

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this vij=th= of August . STOCKWE,I,28.013.218

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_013:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend in all fortunes {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,28.013.219

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_014> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,28>

{ED:NO._1604,_OCTOBER,_22._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very loving frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
Totton , theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,28.014.220

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : The staie of this bearer hath bene the cause
of the staie of my lres , and thankes to you , as well for your care in
sending my trunck so soone after me <paren> w=ch= I received safelie
</paren> as for all other your kindnes showed me . STOCKWE,I,28.014.221

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am bold to trouble you w=th= my Nagg w=ch= would here soone eate out
himself and me to , though I thinke I shall have occation this tearme
to goe into that countrie againe , w=ch= I will differ till your coming
up , when wee will consult and conclude thereof . STOCKWE,I,28.014.222

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I mett w=th= M=r= Will=m= Chandler at my first coming to London , who
hath lres for you from S=r= Oliver w=ch= himself will bring shortlie to
you . STOCKWE,I,28.014.223

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Oliver thinketh that he is full paied all his anuitie ,
STOCKWE,I,28.014.224

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For he asked him howe you paied him who answered that you satisfied him
all to his coming thether , w=ch= he liked very well , and wished you
should continue to do so still , w=ch= I <P_I,29> wish also ,
STOCKWE,I,29.014.225

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For I perceive by S=r= Oliver his lres to me that he is not onelie
willing but very desirous to give all the contentment he can .
STOCKWE,I,29.014.226

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To that purpose he hath directed me to assist him with my purse and
paines in going w=th= him to Counsaile , and afford him all the help I
can in his buisenes . STOCKWE,I,29.014.227

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lady also hath written the like to me , who is very desirous to have
peaceble and frendlie end w=th= him . STOCKWE,I,29.014.228

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I shall therfore desire you to take his three acquittaunces for the
xx=li= dewe to him and send the monie hether assoone as you can
discharge his debt and mine to his uncle . STOCKWE,I,29.014.229

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
By himself you shall understand how pleasing it will be to S=r= Oliver
, and how displeasing it would be to discontent him I can assure you .
STOCKWE,I,29.014.230

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To morrowe M=r= Lambert his uncle and I must meete about his buisenes .
STOCKWE,I,29.014.231

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have looked into W=m= Combe his lease STOCKWE,I,29.014.232

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and finde he hath no more than 14=en= daies after Michlemas .
STOCKWE,I,29.014.233

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If then you demaunded the rent on that daie in the porch of Milbroke
church and received it not , his lease is voide . STOCKWE,I,29.014.234

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And if nowe you shall receive the rent <paren> though after the daie
</paren> and give him your acquittaunce but for the daie you receive it
, and not one the daie it was dewe , it helpeth him nothing ,
STOCKWE,I,29.014.235

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but you may reenter when you will hereafter , wherof I would not advise
you to be to open or to hastie . STOCKWE,I,29.014.236

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me hartelie I praie you to M=r= Singleton and his wife , I meane
first your father and then them att Totten , where also I praie you to
remember me hartelie to father Horne his sonnes and daughter ,
STOCKWE,I,29.014.237

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and thanke them all in my name for their kindnes . STOCKWE,I,29.014.238

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse you and all your children . STOCKWE,I,29.014.239

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I take my leave . STOCKWE,I,29.014.240

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,29.014.241

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 22=th= of October STOCKWE,I,29.014.242

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_014:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,29.014.243

<Q_STC_A_1604?_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_015> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,30>

{ED:NO._1604_[?]._LETTER_FROM_LADY_HESTER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_STOCKW
ELL.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} <em> To my </em> verie good $friend Captaine Stockewell
at South hamttun give these . STOCKWE,I,30.015.244

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
good stockewell I writ to you by my neve Chandler ,
STOCKWE,I,30.015.245

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but have herd nothing sinse from you ; onely a letter from m=r= antonie
that speikese of your Care in all our bisnis , which wee ar asured of
to be gret ; STOCKWE,I,30.015.246

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
m=r= lambart lickes well of your letting of toune hill for ayere ,
STOCKWE,I,30.015.247

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and desiarse you to be Carefull that his wodes be not spoiled , but
with gret Care {ED:?_looked}_VAN to STOCKWE,I,30.015.248

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for he douth much esteme of them . STOCKWE,I,30.015.249

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I hope the orcharde is this yere made , and all the $rest of nesesarie
thinges a boute the house as fast as you Cane shall be donn .
STOCKWE,I,30.015.250

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
If you respect me youse your best mense to ... temse that I may ether
have my monie , or else let him till for it . STOCKWE,I,30.015.251

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I say no more but that I would be loth to lose my pese of cloth of
sillver , that had prepared it for my one youse ; espeshallly after
m=r= lambat was made to pay $the ottermust penie therfor ...
STOCKWE,I,30.015.252

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dene rath STOCKWE,I,30.015.253

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the xiiij=th= of ..._X STOCKWE,I,30.015.254

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:25?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_015:E2:1604?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
When my cousin malarie {ED:?} comes to you pray youse him kindly .
STOCKWE,I,30.015.255

<Q_STC_A_1604_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_016> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,30>

{ED:NO._1604_[?]._LETTER_FROM_SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_STOCKWE
LL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom stocwell {ED:BLANK} since the writting off my lett=r= Joseph tells
us that you have geven away her cloth of silver to the la: marques for
her favor , that she refused the sam , that you leaft itt <P_I,31> ther
. STOCKWE,I,31.016.256

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I knowe I have payd the utter cost , that ... she could urge me to ,
STOCKWE,I,31.016.257

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and you by nott bringing itt a way ar cusened off the cloth off silver
. STOCKWE,I,31.016.258

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my wiff is greved that you would coddle w=th= itt att all , being leaft
in trust w=th= you , and to no good to us . STOCKWE,I,31.016.259

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
iff she did nott accept itt and promis youe favor , demand itt a gayn
STOCKWE,I,31.016.260

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I will not loose itt . STOCKWE,I,31.016.261

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
wondering that you would nott so mutch as write a woord theroff nor
m=r= Antony if itt be trewe . STOCKWE,I,31.016.262

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:44?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_016:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my wiff sayth that no body knewe that you had the cloth off silver butt
your self . STOCKWE,I,31.016.263

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_017> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,31>

{ED:NO._1604,_OCTOBER_28._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_STOCKWE
LL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : The lres w=ch= I received by this carier hath
taken awaie the blame w=ch= in my other lres I laied on you for not
writing . STOCKWE,I,31.017.264

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet I send them though I excuse you , that you maie perceive I do not
forgett you . STOCKWE,I,31.017.265

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am sorry for your maide and m=r= Perrie , not in regard of them who I
hope are well , but in regard of you who I thinke will misse them .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.266

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I waite dailie for meanes to send into Ireland , w=ch= so soone as I
can heare of I will acquaint my Lady of the good estate of hir stuffe .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.267

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
W=th=in theise foure daies I must be at Basingstooke to dispatch again
w=th= my Lady . STOCKWE,I,31.017.268

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was an error in the former Fyne so that there must be a newe one
acknowledged , w=ch= had bene done ere this but that it pleased God so
to visite me that I was not able to ride . STOCKWE,I,31.017.269

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe well though not lustie I will by Godes help be there by Sundaie .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.270

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Howe long I shall staie there I knowe not . STOCKWE,I,31.017.271

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Not long I hope because I have m=r= Throkmorton his assistaunce w=th=
me to farther and hasten my buisenes . STOCKWE,I,31.017.272

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe not howe you can convenientlie buy me any rash if the sicknes
continewe . STOCKWE,I,31.017.273

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But if you may I praie you send me iij yeardes of the best and
strongest broade rash or searge you can meete w=th= .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.274

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I meete w=th= it at my retourne it shall be very welcome to me .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.275

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There is here no Tobacco but at so high a rate as undoeth poore men .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.276

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you be better there I praie you help your frendes .
STOCKWE,I,31.017.277

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am glad you=r= children are well whome I praie <P_I,32> God ever to
blesse and their father to . STOCKWE,I,32.017.278

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All thinges have gon so crosse w=th= me as I can nether thinke or write
as I would . STOCKWE,I,32.017.279

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to your father and all his familie And all other my frendes
thereaboutes STOCKWE,I,32.017.280

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so god keepe you . STOCKWE,I,32.017.281

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,32.017.282

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxviij=th= of October . STOCKWE,I,32.017.283

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_017:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,32.017.284

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_018> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,32>

{ED:NO._1604,_NOVEMBER_19._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captain Thomas Stockwell at
Hampton or elles where . STOCKWE,I,32.018.285

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Leave theise at m=r= Perry an Apothecarie his house in Hampton to be
delivered as aforesaid . STOCKWE,I,32.018.286

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good captaine . Nether your presence w=ch= I have dailie expected , nor
hearing from you since the leaving of that Countrie maketh me very
carefull of your state . Whereof till I be assured eyther-2 by your
presence or your lres I shall still remaine doubtfull .
STOCKWE,I,32.018.287

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If therefore your determinacon of coming up be altered , yet I praie
let your poore frendes understand by your lres that your self and your
children are well , then w=ch= you can send nothing more pleasing
thence . STOCKWE,I,32.018.288

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not beleeve it , though manie your frendes merilie affirme it ,
that this winter weather and long nightes make you so carefull to seeke
a companion to comfort you and passe them , as your poore frendes here
are for the time forgotten . STOCKWE,I,32.018.289

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If that be the matter , go on foreward , STOCKWE,I,32.018.290

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and when you have done wee shall be as glad of you as ever wee were ,
STOCKWE,I,32.018.291

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For wee love you nothing the lesse for loving the lasse .
STOCKWE,I,32.018.292

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet let me put you in minde of S=r= Oliver his lres ,
STOCKWE,I,32.018.293

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
looke ere you leape . STOCKWE,I,32.018.294

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And the Counsaile I thinke is nowe better to be observed , because
winter hath manie fowle plashes in it , wherein a man <P_I,33> thinking
to passe well may be plunged deeper then he would be ere he be aware .
STOCKWE,I,33.018.295

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tak heede is good Counsaile . STOCKWE,I,33.018.296

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If it be done to daie , it $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be undone to morrow
nor the next daie nor anie daie till the last daie .
STOCKWE,I,33.018.297

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore I praie you sett not your minde so much on your lasse that you
altogeather forgett your wellwishers and well lovers of another sexe ,
STOCKWE,I,33.018.298

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but if wee see you not , let us heare from you howe you doe and what
you have done for your night buisenes , that wee maie wish you all
prosperitie therein . STOCKWE,I,33.018.299

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie if you come , or if you come not , to send me as sone as
convenientlie you can three yeardes of the best broad searge you can
meete w=th= , STOCKWE,I,33.018.300

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For M=r= Blose hath disapointed me for my kersie he promised .
STOCKWE,I,33.018.301

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will see it satisfied by Godes help , w=ch= I hope will not come to
xxx=s= or not above . STOCKWE,I,33.018.302

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to m=r= drake STOCKWE,I,33.018.303

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tell him I forgett not $to write to him , STOCKWE,I,33.018.304

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but yet he is nether at Hampton nor any thinge ... in the Cannons .
STOCKWE,I,33.018.305

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Salute also m=r= Singleton and m=r= Singleton and their wives , Father
Horne and his familie to little Nan . STOCKWE,I,33.018.306

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse you and all yours . STOCKWE,I,33.018.307

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,33.018.308

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 19=th= of November STOCKWE,I,33.018.309

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_018:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,33.018.310

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_019> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,33>

{ED:NO._1604,_DECEMBER_13._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captain Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries nere Southampton theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,33.019.311

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . At my retourne from Basingstooke I mett w=th=
your lres here received in my absence , STOCKWE,I,33.019.312

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
otherwise they should have bene aunswered . STOCKWE,I,33.019.313

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This weeke I hoped to <P_I,34> have received from you three yeardes of
the broadest searge STOCKWE,I,34.019.314

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And going to that purpose to the carier he told me he had none : But
that three weekes agoe you desired him to give me xxx=s= w=ch= he nowe
offered me . STOCKWE,I,34.019.315

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I tooke none of him : STOCKWE,I,34.019.316

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But intreat you that for it you will buy me three yeardes of the best
and broadest black searge you can gett , And send it by the retourne of
this carier if possiblie you can . STOCKWE,I,34.019.317

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If it cost more <paren> for I desire it may be of the principall best
</paren> I will retourne the overplus for it . STOCKWE,I,34.019.318

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you let me intreat this trouble at your handes w=th=out faile
STOCKWE,I,34.019.319

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or elles I must goe in my olde over worne clothes this Christmas .
STOCKWE,I,34.019.320

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have by m=r= Mallorie written to my Lady about hir cloth of gold and
taken it on my self so that I hope she will be satisfied .
STOCKWE,I,34.019.321

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wish you good muscadell to your bow : STOCKWE,I,34.019.322

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I heare you will be content w=th= good Perrye , w=ch= I doubt is
somewhat to cold for this season , and will be better at Easter .
STOCKWE,I,34.019.323

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet daintie ware is good at all times , STOCKWE,I,34.019.324

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
therfore take it while you may STOCKWE,I,34.019.325

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but take heed of to much . STOCKWE,I,34.019.326

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to all my frendes there at Totten STOCKWE,I,34.019.327

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so God blesse you and all your children . STOCKWE,I,34.019.328

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,34.019.329

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xiij=th= december . STOCKWE,I,34.019.330

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_019:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,34.019.331

<Q_STC_A_1604_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_020> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,34>

{ED:NO._1604,_DECEMBER_21._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very loving and assured good frend Captaine
Thomas Stockwell at S=t= maries neere Southampton theise d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,34.020.332

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell , It is some greife to me that I $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} write my minde so fully to you as I would , because my
lres must be read by another besides your self . STOCKWE,I,34.020.333

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the mocon w=ch= m=r= Jackson hath or will make unto you for the
lodge , I was loth to write so much and so freelie as I would have done
, if <P_I,35> your self onelie had bene to viewe my lres .
STOCKWE,I,35.020.334

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I presume you will thinke well on it , and advise w=th= good
consideracon , STOCKWE,I,35.020.335

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so I leave it till I see you w=ch= I long to doe .
STOCKWE,I,35.020.336

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I feare me you are so tied to your Perry-bottle as that till you
sufett thereon wee shall not see you here . STOCKWE,I,35.020.337

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This cold drie weather hath chapped our lippes so that wee $can $not
{TEXT:cannot} laugh ; STOCKWE,I,35.020.338

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I hope you have so good lipp-salve , and lipp-labor to , that you
are not troubled w=th= that disease . STOCKWE,I,35.020.339

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You should doe well to spare your frendes some and not to incroach all
to your self , though I would be loth to hinder your laughing this
merry time . STOCKWE,I,35.020.340

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
What your sport will be I alreadie understand . STOCKWE,I,35.020.341

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can post it well ; though you are nowe single , you will
quicklie be a paire STOCKWE,I,35.020.342

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then both are yours . STOCKWE,I,35.020.343

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wish you a good stake , STOCKWE,I,35.020.344

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
elles the gaine is worth little . STOCKWE,I,35.020.345

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so to end w=th= me ; and goe to your sport . STOCKWE,I,35.020.346

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
By this carier I have received three yeardes and a halfe of searge for
the w=ch= I hartelie thanke you . STOCKWE,I,35.020.347

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I remaine your debter for the halfe yeard , w=ch= if you had so
directed me I would have sent you by this carier {ED:BLANK} But seeing
you make no mencon thereof I have staied it till I knowe your mind ,
w=ch= if it ether to be sent or to be bestowed here I will not faile to
doe it . STOCKWE,I,35.020.348

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And soe I leave you to your bottle . STOCKWE,I,35.020.349

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Perry indeede . STOCKWE,I,35.020.350

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Say you so . STOCKWE,I,35.020.351

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To it again , the bottle will last till Easter , and so from Easter to
Easter . STOCKWE,I,35.020.352

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Why then to Easter and to Perry to . STOCKWE,I,35.020.353

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I wish you that mirth I shall want this merry time .
STOCKWE,I,35.020.354

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In all your mirth God blesse you STOCKWE,I,35.020.355

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and send you and yours his grace for ever . STOCKWE,I,35.020.356

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Fare you well w=th= all my hart . STOCKWE,I,35.020.357

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,35.020.358

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxj=th= of december . STOCKWE,I,35.020.359

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_020:E2:1604:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,35.020.360

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_021> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,35>

{ED:NO._1604/5,_JANUARY_22._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his verie loving frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maryes neere Southampton theis d=r= . STOCKWE,I,35.021.361

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
hast , STOCKWE,I,35.021.362

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
hast , STOCKWE,I,35.021.363

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
hast . STOCKWE,I,35.021.364

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Though I am very glad we shall see you here ,
yet I am as sorry that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} despatch your <P_I,36>
buisenes for you w=th=out your trouble . STOCKWE,I,36.021.365

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have bene at the Chauncery , STOCKWE,I,36.021.366

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and there understand that by reason of the priviledge of Googe in the
Chauncerie because of his dependancie of the m=r= of the Rols this his
first writt is an attachement , To w=ch= you must in person appeare .
STOCKWE,I,36.021.367

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The farthest daie is Saterdaie till when wee have taken order that your
absence shall not be preiudiciall unto you . STOCKWE,I,36.021.368

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
By Saterdaie at noone wee will looke for you , STOCKWE,I,36.021.369

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore make your mare amble apace , STOCKWE,I,36.021.370

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or elles you will both forfaict your band to the Sheriffe for your
apparaunce , and incurre greater daunger here . STOCKWE,I,36.021.371

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can bring x=li= at least w=th= you STOCKWE,I,36.021.372

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I lacke monie for my buisenes . STOCKWE,I,36.021.373

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus w=th=out faile looking then to see you . STOCKWE,I,36.021.374

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In hast I bid you farewell , STOCKWE,I,36.021.375

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and bid you hast hether . STOCKWE,I,36.021.376

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend to M=rs= Easter , STOCKWE,I,36.021.377

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I know not whether Perry or Stockwell , STOCKWE,I,36.021.378

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And God give you ioye STOCKWE,I,36.021.379

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and blesse yo and all yours . STOCKWE,I,36.021.380

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,36.021.381

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxij=th= of Januarie . STOCKWE,I,36.021.382

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_021:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving and assured Frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth:
Anto`nie . STOCKWE,I,36.021.383

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_022> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,36>

{ED:NO._1604/5,_FEBRUARY_19._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOM
AS_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,36.022.384

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . The last carier went awaie w=th=out my lres
because I assured myself that at this his retourne <P_I,37> I should
have received the x=li= I desired you to send unto me for the dispatch
of S=r= Oliver his buisenes for Townehill , w=ch= I thanke God I have
finished this terme . STOCKWE,I,37.022.385

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I was faine to borrowe so much to effect it , w=ch= I promised upon
your word to repaie w=th=in a fortnight . STOCKWE,I,37.022.386

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Let me therfore earnestlie intreat you that at the farthest you will
send it by this next carier . STOCKWE,I,37.022.387

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you could sooner convey it hether safelie , you should much pleasure
me , because I had it of one w=th= whome I had rather prevent a daie
then make him thinke long ere he had it . STOCKWE,I,37.022.388

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore againe I earnestlie desire you that I may not faile of it by
the next , eyther carier , or other as you can best send it .
STOCKWE,I,37.022.389

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you could read my lres your self I would have written largelie of
your owne buisenes , STOCKWE,I,37.022.390

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And because I will have none acquainted w=th= them but who you thinke
fitt besides your self , I have taken the paines to write it in Romaine
hand in this inclosed paper , w=ch= I thinke your self can read .
STOCKWE,I,37.022.391

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Open it therfore STOCKWE,I,37.022.392

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and finde it out , STOCKWE,I,37.022.393

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And then proceede as you thinke good . STOCKWE,I,37.022.394

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to your self and your other self . STOCKWE,I,37.022.395

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I comend you to God and your good liquor , STOCKWE,I,37.022.396

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I meane not sack , but Perry whereof I heare you taste for diet all
this Lent till Easter , and then meane to make it Easter all the yeare
long . STOCKWE,I,37.022.397

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse you and all your children . STOCKWE,I,37.022.398

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Fare you well STOCKWE,I,37.022.399

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
from London this xix=th= of Februarie . STOCKWE,I,37.022.400

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_022:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,37.022.401

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_023> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,37>

{ED:NO._1604/5,_FEBRUARY_20._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOM
AS_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at S=t= Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,37.023.402

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Yesterdaie by the carier I wrote unto you
desiring that you would not forgett to furnish me w=th= the x=li= I
here spake to you for STOCKWE,I,37.023.403

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And because I tooke it up of m=r= Rychardson w=th=out S=r= Will=m=
Fletewoodes privitie but for a fortnight I am very carefull to repaie
it by the time promised . STOCKWE,I,37.023.404

<P_I,38>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
W=th=out it I could not have finished my fine for Townehill w=ch= is
nowe done , and all thinges for that purchase dispatched .
STOCKWE,I,38.023.405

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I can heare that m=r= Lambert is come to Hampton , I will come downe
to have his Fyne acknowledged , and procure a Court to be kept at
Townehill . STOCKWE,I,38.023.406

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So soone therfore as he shall retourne thether I pray you certifie me
thereof , STOCKWE,I,38.023.407

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will prepare accordinglie . STOCKWE,I,38.023.408

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not heard from Ireland since you went . STOCKWE,I,38.023.409

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I heare my L deputie is w=th=in theise two daies come to London
STOCKWE,I,38.023.410

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but have not seene him yet . STOCKWE,I,38.023.411

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If there be any lres for me you shall heare therof .
STOCKWE,I,38.023.412

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus hartelie desiring $you to furnish me by the next carier , because
my credit is engaged , I comend you to God , ennvying your good hap
that keepe no Lent this yeare but make Easter every daie sucking your
fill of Perry . STOCKWE,I,38.023.413

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,38.023.414

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xx=th= of Feb. . STOCKWE,I,38.023.415

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,38.023.416

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you will have such a hatt as m=rs= Lamberts is or any other write
your minde STOCKWE,I,38.023.417

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will performe it if I can . STOCKWE,I,38.023.418

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I send you hereinclosed your string and letter w=ch= I can make nothing
of . STOCKWE,I,38.023.419

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_023:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so againe and ever I comend you and all yours to God .
STOCKWE,I,38.023.420

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_024> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,39>

{ED:NO._1605,_MAY_9._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCK
WELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at S=t= Maries neere Southampton w=th= speede . STOCKWE,I,39.024.421

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Being put in doubt by m=r= Pedlie of your
coming hether according to your promise by your lre , <P_I,40> And
fearing least thereby I should be disappointed of such monie as I shall
very greatlie have occasion to use , I am to intreat you that if you
hold not to your determinacon of coming hether that yet you will take
order I may be furnished . STOCKWE,I,40.024.422

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In hope of your coming all this terme , w=ch= for many earnest matters
besides my desire to see you I have wished for , I have tried my
frendes for such necessarie expence as the devouring Exchequer hath
swallowed up , w=ch= is all to be repaied againe at the end of the
terme . In w=ch= time also I shall have necessarie occasions of great
disbursementes , and be utterlie unprovided if you furnish me not .
STOCKWE,I,40.024.423

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore good Captaine even as you love me , if you come not your self
I praie you take order I may at the least by Tuesday night have five
poundes here , w=ch= I protest I knowe not elles where to gett , And
would not want for my credittes sake and S=r= Olivers for twice $xx
$=li= {TEXT:xx=li=} . STOCKWE,I,40.024.424

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will saie no more STOCKWE,I,40.024.425

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but as you love me and will have me love you faile me not .
STOCKWE,I,40.024.426

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me againe to m=rs= Stockwell and all other my frendes .
STOCKWE,I,40.024.427

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse your litle ones . STOCKWE,I,40.024.428

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so fare you well . STOCKWE,I,40.024.429

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,40.024.430

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this ix=th= of May . STOCKWE,I,40.024.431

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_024:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,40.024.432

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_025> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,40>

{ED:NO._1605,_ASCENSION_DAY_[MAY_29]._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAP
TAIN_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at S=t= Maries neere Southampton d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,40.025.433

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell , Thinke me not slowe in giving you hartie
thankes for the bacon you sent me , because I did not send them by the
retourne of the carrier that brought it . STOCKWE,I,40.025.434

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My buisenes at that time did so necessarilie require my continuall
attendaunce , as that the carier was gon befor I could gaine so much
time as to come to my lodging and write <font> I thanke you </font> .
STOCKWE,I,40.025.435

<P_I,41>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My care hath bene since to enquire for a messenger that might convey my
hartiest thankes to you , w=ch= I praie you to accept in all kindnes ,
STOCKWE,I,41.025.436

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for so I send them to you . STOCKWE,I,41.025.437

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have not spoken w=th= m=r= Goodge since the receipt of your lres for
want of $leisure . STOCKWE,I,41.025.438

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tomorrow God will I will . STOCKWE,I,41.025.439

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will be glad to heare <em> what he </em> can saie to exempt himself
from paying of tythes : though I thinke it not fitt as yet to put it to
the opinion of lawiers for such reasons as I will tell you at your
coming up hether . STOCKWE,I,41.025.440

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore I pray you hartelie to continue your resolucon of being here
on Tuesdaie next . STOCKWE,I,41.025.441

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And w=th= you I praie you to bring so much of the rent of Townehill as
you have received and can spare . W=ch= I would not call for but that
both S=r= Oliver and my Ladie are loth I should be troublesome to S=r=
William Fletewood for such monies as I have occasion to use in their
buisenes , for some reasons as I will at our meeting then impart to you
. STOCKWE,I,41.025.442

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet S=r= William seeing the necessitie of dispatching the Exchequer
buisenes this terme hath furnished me w=th= x=li= w=ch= I promised to
repaie at the end hereof . STOCKWE,I,41.025.443

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He knowes of the expending of it by the great charge the suite hath
cost besides the infinite toyle therof . STOCKWE,I,41.025.444

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you take such order that I may keepe my creditt w=th= him
according to S=r= Oliver his pleasure , In whose name I desire you not
to faile me . STOCKWE,I,41.025.445

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend to your wife And your self and ... STOCKWE,I,41.025.446

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse your little ones and great bellies {ED:BLANK}
STOCKWE,I,41.025.447

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so in hast I bid you hartelie fare well STOCKWE,I,41.025.448

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Ascention daie at night . STOCKWE,I,41.025.449

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,41.025.450

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_025:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> For many reasons I pray you if you can to be heare at your time
appointed . </font> STOCKWE,I,41.025.451

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_026> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,41>

{ED:NO._1605,_JUNE_17._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . The divers and constant report of your coming
up affirmed by every one of Hampton w=ch= I met <P_I,42> hath bene the
cause I have not written to you though I much and earnestlie longed and
looked for your coming . STOCKWE,I,42.026.452

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I received lres from S=r= Oliver Lambert latelie about matters of great
importaunce For the following of w=ch= he hath written I shall be
furnished w=th= monie from you . STOCKWE,I,42.026.453

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To that purpose he hath written a lre to you , w=ch= I would have sent
you but that I expected your coming dailie and therfore durst not send
it for feare of missing you by the waie . STOCKWE,I,42.026.454

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet I dare not venture to send it STOCKWE,I,42.026.455

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But have sent you the copie of it w=ch= when you come you shall see to
agree w=th= the originall . STOCKWE,I,42.026.456

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you w=th= as much speede as {with}_P you can to bring or send me
up as much as you can procure , STOCKWE,I,42.026.457

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for the buisenes staies upon it . STOCKWE,I,42.026.458

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can bring up x=li= till I see or send to you for more .
STOCKWE,I,42.026.459

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will drawe it forth as far as I can . STOCKWE,I,42.026.460

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine differ not till the coming of the carier ,
STOCKWE,I,42.026.461

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for it may much preiudice S=r= Olivers suite w=ch= is of great moment .
STOCKWE,I,42.026.462

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So knowing your care I will saie no more , but refer you to S=r=
Olivers lre the copie whereof is here inclosed . STOCKWE,I,42.026.463

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to your wife hartelie , STOCKWE,I,42.026.464

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And God blesse you and yo=r= little ones . STOCKWE,I,42.026.465

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,42.026.466

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xvij=th= of June . STOCKWE,I,42.026.467

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,42.026.468

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I pray you stir not the hanginges till you heare from me
STOCKWE,I,42.026.469

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for yet I have no occation to use them . STOCKWE,I,42.026.470

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would I had , STOCKWE,I,42.026.471

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_026:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for then my buisenes were done . </font> STOCKWE,I,42.026.472

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_027> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,42>

{ED:NO._1605,_JULY_4._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOC
KWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
St Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,42.027.473

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If he be not at Hampton I pray you retourne this lre againe .
STOCKWE,I,42.027.474

<P_I,43>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . I have adventured at length to send you S=r=
Olivers lre , seing my credit is not so good as w=th=out it to be
furnished . STOCKWE,I,43.027.475

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I had not looked for you every daie I would not have kept it in my
handes so long : STOCKWE,I,43.027.476

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I was told by every body that you were every daie upon coming w=ch=
I have waited for to the great preiudice of S=r= Olivers buisenes w=ch=
is of great importaunce . STOCKWE,I,43.027.477

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet , I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} do any thinge therein till I be
furnished w=th= meanes from you as he hath appointed .
STOCKWE,I,43.027.478

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Though S=t= Maries rentes be unpaied yet I thinke Townehill rent is not
so : STOCKWE,I,43.027.479

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
w=th= that so far as it will goe I praie you lett me be satisfied for
this buisenes I have in hand w=ch= is faine to lie still untill I heare
from you . STOCKWE,I,43.027.480

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At your repaire hether you shall understand more and see what he hath
written to me . STOCKWE,I,43.027.481

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time if you confer his owne hand w=th= the Copie I sent
you , you shall perceive I delt honestlie , and asked nothing but by
his owne direccon . STOCKWE,I,43.027.482

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And even so referring the care of the proceeding of his buisenes to
your consideracon I bid you fare well . STOCKWE,I,43.027.483

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,43.027.484

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this iiij=th= of July . STOCKWE,I,43.027.485

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie STOCKWE,I,43.027.486

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_027:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I send his lre unsealed as he sent it to me . </font>
STOCKWE,I,43.027.487

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_028> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,44>

{ED:NO._1605,_JULY_6._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOC
KWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captain Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere South Hampton theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,44.028.488

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . You shall receive herew=th= your wifes hatt
cased up as well as wee could devise , so that I presume it will come
in good sort if it bruise not in the cariage , w=ch= the carier hath
given me his word it shall not . STOCKWE,I,44.028.489

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Withall if you looke for the Queene of clubbes she directes something
to you STOCKWE,I,44.028.490

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And because hir face is painted she is ashamed to shewe it ,
STOCKWE,I,44.028.491

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore laies it close to an old sack . STOCKWE,I,44.028.492

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On hir back side you shall finde your name : And in the said old sack
some sauce for your meate . STOCKWE,I,44.028.493

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
All this is nothing elles but that I have sent you a score of Cucumbers
, sewed in an old sack , w=th= direcon to you on a card w=ch= is the
Queene of clubbs . STOCKWE,I,44.028.494

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I had thought you would have <P_I,45> liked any drinke better then
Perry I would have sent a sack of wine also . STOCKWE,I,45.028.495

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But your diet is to well knowen . STOCKWE,I,45.028.496

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Will=m= Fletewood was in towne the next daie after you went
STOCKWE,I,45.028.497

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and holdes his determinacon . STOCKWE,I,45.028.498

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have therfore sent downe a little trunck w=th= linnen and the
writinges of Townehill to keepe court there w=ch= I praie you receive
into your custodie . STOCKWE,I,45.028.499

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I feare me you have so iested {ED:?} <em> with my Lady about </em>
coming downe w=th= S=r= Will=m= that it will prove in earnest : w=ch=
if she be my little mistris comes to And must be entertained as Lady of
S=t= maries . STOCKWE,I,45.028.500

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Promise therfore that little will entertaine hir w=th= an oracon at hir
entring . STOCKWE,I,45.028.501

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest I refer to your self to whome in a little idle hast I comend
me And to your wife , ever praying God to blesse your litle ones .
STOCKWE,I,45.028.502

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Till we meete farewell . STOCKWE,I,45.028.503

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,45.028.504

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this vj=th= of July . STOCKWE,I,45.028.505

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend to use {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,45.028.506

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> Postsc: </font> Good Captaine Stockwell , if possiblie you can ,
procure from m=r= Harries the Court booke for Townehill , or at least
the Copie of the last Court , STOCKWE,I,45.028.507

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or elles wee shall loose all our labor , STOCKWE,I,45.028.508

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and can keepe no court w=ch= is the cheife thing to be done .
STOCKWE,I,45.028.509

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_028:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I earnestlie therfore desire you by some meanes , though S=r= Oliver
paie well for it , that you will provide to lett us be furnished ,
though you send one of purpose to m=r= Harris . STOCKWE,I,45.028.510

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_029> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,45>

{ED:NO._1605,_JULY_12._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his verie good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere Southampton , these d=r= . STOCKWE,I,45.029.511

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Captaine Stockwell . M=r= Lambert at his being here sent for me
STOCKWE,I,45.029.512

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and delivered to me x=li= for the w=ch= I gave him a note to <P_I,46>
receive so much of you , as he desired . STOCKWE,I,46.029.513

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At this time I have not use of any more , STOCKWE,I,46.029.514

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nether am I willing to charge my self w=th= more then {with}_P needes I
must . STOCKWE,I,46.029.515

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When I shall have occasion to use the other vij=li= I will lett you
understand thereof . STOCKWE,I,46.029.516

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time I have not called for it of John Broadwaie because I
thinke not to want it this fortnight till when you may recall it back
if you have delivered him so much . STOCKWE,I,46.029.517

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You much mistake me to thinke that I take it unkindlie that you
demaunded S=r= Olivers lre . STOCKWE,I,46.029.518

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe it was to you STOCKWE,I,46.029.519

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore it had bene no honestie for me to have kept it whatsoever
it had concerned . STOCKWE,I,46.029.520

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I detained it not therfore w=th= any purpose not to send you it : but
because I was ever looking for you and therfore feared least if I had
sent it you might have missed it , STOCKWE,I,46.029.521

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I ever wrote unto you . STOCKWE,I,46.029.522

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nether was it my meaning if you came not up your self you should so
much trust me as to furnish me upon sight of the Copie , w=ch= I sent
you onelie to lett you knowe what you should finde here when you came .
STOCKWE,I,46.029.523

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Feare not that I will use such or any such like shiftes to gett monie
from you or any other . STOCKWE,I,46.029.524

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I can not have it w=th= honestie I will have honestie w=th=out it .
STOCKWE,I,46.029.525

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You have been looked for about your accomptes STOCKWE,I,46.029.526

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I thinke S=r= William meanes to intreat you to goe to Ireland upon
some speciall buisenes . STOCKWE,I,46.029.527

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When you come you shall understand more . STOCKWE,I,46.029.528

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time , w=th= my comendacons to your self and your wife I
leave you to God . STOCKWE,I,46.029.529

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,46.029.530

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xij=th= of July . STOCKWE,I,46.029.531

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_029:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,46.029.532

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_030> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,46>

{ED:NO._1605,_JULY_20._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere to South Hampton , theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,46.030.533

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : I thanke you for satisfying of m=r= Lambert
the some w=ch= I received of him , according to his expectacon .
STOCKWE,I,46.030.534

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If my occasions had not required it I would not <P_I,47> have troubled
you and him so farr : STOCKWE,I,47.030.535

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I am nowe in the middest of my buisenes , wherein if I speede well
, I feare I shall be forced to trouble you for a greater some , whereof
as occasion serveth I will advertise you . STOCKWE,I,47.030.536

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When I said you were expected w=th= your accomptes , I conceived no
such matter that you should staie them eyther-2 for unwillingnes or
shame to deliver them . STOCKWE,I,47.030.537

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It is somewhat strange to me that you should use such speeches , as if
there were any distrust of your faythfullnes . STOCKWE,I,47.030.538

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I assure you there $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be had a better opinion of
any then there is of you , both-4 for your carefullnes and paines in
the charge comitted unto you . STOCKWE,I,47.030.539

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thinke not therfore that they are expected in any misdoubt of you , but
onelie because you were wont ever to offer them before this time .
STOCKWE,I,47.030.540

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I did the rather signifie so much unto y=u= more in regarde of my
desire to see you then for any such conceipt as you seeme to apprehend
, w=ch= me thinkes among kinde frendes should not be so quicklie taken
. STOCKWE,I,47.030.541

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will certifie S=r= Will=m= Fletewoode of your aunswer and acquaint
$you w=th= his replie to me . STOCKWE,I,47.030.542

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
M=r= Goudge wrongeth me much to saie that I should advise to have his
tythes praysed and caried to his barne . STOCKWE,I,47.030.543

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God is my witnes I never conceipted it . STOCKWE,I,47.030.544

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nether had he and I any such conference , or any speach about his
tythes . STOCKWE,I,47.030.545

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie therfore give no creditt to any report from me .
STOCKWE,I,47.030.546

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not undertake to meddle in those matters w=ch= are not comitted
to me . STOCKWE,I,47.030.547

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I may assist you in any thinge I will be readie to do it w=th= my
advise or otherwaies : STOCKWE,I,47.030.548

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But assure your self I will not take upon me to be a director .
STOCKWE,I,47.030.549

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Use therfore I praie you your owne advise as you thinke most fitt for
S=r= Oliver his profitt wherto I will in no case be an intermedler much
lesse a hinderer , as I should be if I should so perswade you , w=ch=
is far from my opinion . STOCKWE,I,47.030.550

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie , you comend me to your wife and your self ,
STOCKWE,I,47.030.551

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and God blesse you and all your litle ones . STOCKWE,I,47.030.552

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I comend you all to God his blessing . STOCKWE,I,47.030.553

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,47.030.554

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xx=th= of July . STOCKWE,I,47.030.555

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,47.030.556

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_030:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I pray you intreat m=r= Lambert to remember his lres to S=r=
Oliver concerning m=r= Cooks ferm=e= as he promised me . </font>
STOCKWE,I,47.030.557

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_031> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,48>

{ED:NO._1605,_AUGUST_30._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere South Hampton , theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,48.031.558

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . If I should repeate all your kindnes to give
thankes for it , I knowe nether-2 howe to begin nor to goe forward ,
nor when to end . STOCKWE,I,48.031.559

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tasting your Tobacco makes me remember you , at meales your knife ,
betweene meales and at night againe your Tobacco . STOCKWE,I,48.031.560

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So all the daie I have argumentes of your kindnes ; For all w=ch= In a
word , I can give you but hartie thankes and assuraunce of a willing
and readie minde desirous of some meanes of requitall .
STOCKWE,I,48.031.561

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At my retourne hether I mett w=th= lres from S=r= Oliver and my Lady ,
w=ch= were welcome because they assured me of his recoverie , whereof
<paren> what shewe soever I made </paren> I was doubtfull as there was
cause . STOCKWE,I,48.031.562

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But nowe <P_I,49> God be thanked he is well and hath written to me
himself . STOCKWE,I,49.031.563

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Among other thinges I am by my Ladies lres given to understand that
they wrote to me by one Cooke a Hampton man and by him tooke order for
the deliverie of an hundred poundes to me . STOCKWE,I,49.031.564

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I mistake not you told me of such an one that brought lres to you
from my Lady . STOCKWE,I,49.031.565

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie finde him out by any meanes , STOCKWE,I,49.031.566

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and knowe whether he hath any such lres for me and monie whereof I make
no doubt , because they write so to me , not that they would send it ,
but that they had alreadie done it . STOCKWE,I,49.031.567

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Be carefull and circumspect herein I praie you STOCKWE,I,49.031.568

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and advise w=th= m=r= Lambert about it . STOCKWE,I,49.031.569

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe not the man STOCKWE,I,49.031.570

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therefore would be loth to p=r=iudice his estimacon ,
STOCKWE,I,49.031.571

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but the suppressing of my lres gives iust cause of suspicon ,
STOCKWE,I,49.031.572

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And therefore requires your speedie and diligent care and paines herein
, w=ch= I pray you to afford at this time . STOCKWE,I,49.031.573

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie tell m=r= Lambert that among S=t= Maries writinges I have
founde an Indenture from James Jeffris to Oliver Lambert whereby the
p=r=nte {ED:?} tythes of Southstoneham and Kingsland are graunted to
him : but can not find any howe they came to James Jeffris , from whom
they were excepted by Will=m= Jeffris . STOCKWE,I,49.031.574

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
According to my promise I have sent you my tonges : w=th= as many
comendacons and thankes as you can receive , whereof I praie you impart
most to your wife , some to your father some to your self and some to
all my frendes there . STOCKWE,I,49.031.575

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And ever praying God to blesse you and your litle ones , I comend you
to God . STOCKWE,I,49.031.576

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,49.031.577

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxx=th= of August . STOCKWE,I,49.031.578

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend to his power {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,49.031.579

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I pray you deliver this inclosed STOCKWE,I,49.031.580

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_031:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
or send it to m=r= Paulet as soone as you can . </font>
STOCKWE,I,49.031.581

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_032> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,50>

{ED:NO._1605,_SEPTEMBER_10._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere the towne of Southampton theise d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.582

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Though since our retourne from Hampton S=r=
Will=m= Fletewoode hath not bene forgetfull of the buisenes concerning
S=t= Maries , but by perusall of the writinges belonging thereto hath
furnished himself w=th= such groundes and instrucions as may helpe the
cause : Yet your lres to me , and M=r= Lambertes to him hath so moved
him as that nowe he meaneth not to delaie any farther time .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.583

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To morrowe he hath appointed to bestowe the daie in Counsaile and then
to proceede w=t=hout delaie as wee shall be directed thereby .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.584

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thinke he meaneth the next weeke to come downe thether againe , to
talke w=th= m=r= Lambert and m=r= Brock and bring processe w=th= us
STOCKWE,I,50.032.585

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But you must keepe this wholie to your self , both-1 because it is
uncertaine , and also if he come he would not by any meanes have it
knowen before hand : STOCKWE,I,50.032.586

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
therfore I praie no wordes thereof , nor shewe in providing till you
see us . STOCKWE,I,50.032.587

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Onelie you maie have his chamber dressed up privatelie as if you looked
for some other frend . STOCKWE,I,50.032.588

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It is strange to me that Cooke $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be heard of and
a great disapointing of me . STOCKWE,I,50.032.589

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Ladies wordes are these , STOCKWE,I,50.032.590

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I writt to you by one Cooke a Hampton man , w=ch= is to pay you
a hundred pounde , as by M=r= Lamberts lres sent by him you shall
perceive . </font> STOCKWE,I,50.032.591

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe your paines will not be wanting to search him out and to knowe
the cause why he suppresseth my lres : wherein he maie do them a
greater displeasure . STOCKWE,I,50.032.592

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good M=r= Thomas comend me to your wife and all other my frendes .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.593

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse all your litle ones . STOCKWE,I,50.032.594

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I praie you provide me halfe a pound of m=r= Hartes Tobacco if it
be not all gone , STOCKWE,I,50.032.595

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And if wee come not by wednesdaie sevennight send it me hether .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.596

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
W=th= all my hart fare you well . STOCKWE,I,50.032.597

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,50.032.598

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this x=th= of Sept . STOCKWE,I,50.032.599

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_032:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,50.032.600

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_033> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,52>

{ED:NO._1605,_OCTOBER_5._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere South hampton , theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,52.033.601

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . The longer it is before wee begin our suite
the better shall wee be armed for our proceeding . STOCKWE,I,52.033.602

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There hath bene no time lost by this delaie , but all advantages
thought and gained for our strength . STOCKWE,I,52.033.603

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So soone as m=r= dawlie cometh to London whome you have entertained for
our Attorney , there shall be no iote of staie in the buisenes .
STOCKWE,I,52.033.604

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Before then the terme approching so neare , it is not thought fitt to
entertaine another Attorney for one processe onlie .
STOCKWE,I,52.033.605

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Wee expect therfore his repaire hether STOCKWE,I,52.033.606

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then wee goe roundlie to it : Hoping to have such successe therein
as shall be a discoragement to any other eyther to take the like course
, or to enter into any more daungerous to S=r= Olivers estate .
STOCKWE,I,52.033.607

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I mervaile that S=r= Oliver giveth us here no warning of his purpose to
repaire hether . STOCKWE,I,52.033.608

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He shall be the best welcome man that can be . STOCKWE,I,52.033.609

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Since Bartholmewtide I have heard not a word from him .
STOCKWE,I,52.033.610

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I shall be right glad if I can see him before he send .
STOCKWE,I,52.033.611

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And should be as glad if I might heare any thinge of that same Cooke my
Lady wrote of for the C=li= {ED:+L100} . STOCKWE,I,52.033.612

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So should I be also to have answer of those lres I wrote to m=r=
Paulett : STOCKWE,I,52.033.613

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They concerned monie disbursed to Henry Sevill by m=r= Rob=t= Lambert
who hath directed me for the disposing of <P_I,53> it .
STOCKWE,I,53.033.614

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you call on them for it , STOCKWE,I,53.033.615

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And bring some w=th= you when you come . STOCKWE,I,53.033.616

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So w=th= my hartiest comendacons I bid you and all yours fare well ,
praying God to blesse you all . STOCKWE,I,53.033.617

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,53.033.618

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 5=th= of October , . STOCKWE,I,53.033.619

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_033:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,53.033.620

<Q_STC_A_1605_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_034> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,53>

{ED:NO._1605,_OCTOBER_7._LETTER_FROM_LADY_HESTER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:ADDRESSED} To my verie good frend m=r= stockwell give these .
STOCKWE,I,53.034.621

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
good Stockwell I have herd both-1 from my father and mr antonie of your
care and nete keping of all m=r= Lambertes goodes houseis and gardense
: which m=r= Lambert and my selfe are hartely thankefull to you for .
STOCKWE,I,53.034.622

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my father speikes much of his entertanement at sant maris and of your
honist and respective yousing {ED:using} of him , which is as plesing
to ous as anie thing you ever did for ous . STOCKWE,I,53.034.623

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mr Lambert hath writ to my father a bout m=r= gouge his taking our tith
from ous . STOCKWE,I,53.034.624

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
hee shall mis of his purpose I hope STOCKWE,I,53.034.625

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I knoe m=r= Lambert will not let him goe {ED:?} so with it thogh
hee spend more then guge is worth . STOCKWE,I,53.034.626

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
M=r= Lambert would have you repare to my father for anie of our
bisnisis home {ED:whom} I kno will not see him take rong of anie in his
absense . STOCKWE,I,53.034.627

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray forget not the planting of the hopgarden with the best frut you
can get STOCKWE,I,53.034.628

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and take good advise in the making of it . STOCKWE,I,53.034.629

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I thanke your wife for hur store {ED:?_score} of turkes which I
<P_I,54> here shee hath . STOCKWE,I,54.034.630

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I hope onse againe to see sant maris STOCKWE,I,54.034.631

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and then I will requit both your carse and panse ; STOCKWE,I,54.034.632

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
till then I can but give you manie thankes both-1 from mr lam and my
selfe . STOCKWE,I,54.034.633

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Mr Lambert hath bine extreme sicke STOCKWE,I,54.034.634

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but nowe I prayse god hee is well recoverd . STOCKWE,I,54.034.635

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray as oft as you cane let ous here of you . STOCKWE,I,54.034.636

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Comend me to my cousin Lambert STOCKWE,I,54.034.637

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and tell him I thinke my selfe much behoulding to him for his kindnis
in all mr Lambertes bisnis and will deserve it if I can .
STOCKWE,I,54.034.638

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
remember me to my sister Calthrop , your selfe and your wife with all
the rest of my frense : STOCKWE,I,54.034.639

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this Comitting you to god I rest Your asured frend {ED:SIGNED} Hester
Lambert . STOCKWE,I,54.034.640

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
tamis Court STOCKWE,I,54.034.641

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:26?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_034:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the vij=th= of october . STOCKWE,I,54.034.642

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_035> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,55>

{ED:NO._1605,_OCTOBER_19._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,55.035.643

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Theise inclosed will certifie you that I have
received lres out of Ireland . STOCKWE,I,55.035.644

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I make no question but that my Lady expresseth in theise hir lres to
you as she did to me , howe pleasing it was to hir that S=r= Will=m=
was so entertained at S=t= Maries as he was , w=ch= I certified hir at
large . STOCKWE,I,55.035.645

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I expected you here ere this , STOCKWE,I,55.035.646

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but presume your staie was onelie to see processe against Googe w=ch=
before theise I am sure are come to your notice . STOCKWE,I,55.035.647

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe wee have begun there shall no delaie be made w=th= him .
STOCKWE,I,55.035.648

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Both S=r= Oliver and my Lady are much moved w=th= this enforced suite .
STOCKWE,I,55.035.649

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It is exceeding troublesome to me at this time being necessarilie to
followe the Court for a suite S=r= Oliver hath comitted to me , namelie
for the M=r= of the Ordinaunce in S=r= George Bourchier his place who
is dead . STOCKWE,I,55.035.650

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is crossed therein by none but S=r= Oliver S=t= John , his brother .
STOCKWE,I,55.035.651

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But thus wee see profitt breakes frendship and brotherwhood to .
STOCKWE,I,55.035.652

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
O wicked worldlines . STOCKWE,I,55.035.653

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Pray that {TEXT:that} I may prosper STOCKWE,I,55.035.654

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and then looke for me to send for the hanginges , to w=ch= I have a
second direcion , yet will not be so hastie in presenting them as I am
directed . STOCKWE,I,55.035.655

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I spake to John Broadwaie for iiij=li= STOCKWE,I,55.035.656

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but he told me he could not tell whether he could furnish me or no .
STOCKWE,I,55.035.657

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you see my bill I praie you take it STOCKWE,I,55.035.658

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and paie it . STOCKWE,I,55.035.659

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And provide as much as you can , STOCKWE,I,55.035.660

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for if I speede well I must use above $xx $=li= {TEXT:xx=li=} w=ch=
S=r= <P_I,56> Oliver hopes you have nowe michlemas is come <paren> they
are his wordes </paren> . STOCKWE,I,56.035.661

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Unless I neede it I will not send for it nor for more then to followe
this suite and diffraie my necessarie charges . STOCKWE,I,56.035.662

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And even so w=th= all my hart hartelie , that is faintlie for I am even
hartlesse to see my suite crossed by a false harted brother , I bid you
fare well . STOCKWE,I,56.035.663

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,56.035.664

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xix=th= of October . STOCKWE,I,56.035.665

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,56.035.666

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> If I had come soone inough John Broadway would have let me have
as much as I would . STOCKWE,I,56.035.667

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I mistooke the day of his coming STOCKWE,I,56.035.668

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_035:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so came late , w=ch= was the occasion of his doubt . </font>
STOCKWE,I,56.035.669

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_036> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,57>

{ED:NO._1605,_OCTOBER_27._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Cap=en= Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere Southampton . STOCKWE,I,57.036.670

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . If this bearer had not come unto me an a
Sundaie , or if he had tarried here but on night I doubt not but I
should have gotten another writt . STOCKWE,I,57.036.671

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But Sundaie being no daie for such buisenes and his hast so great I
must intreat your patience till I send it by some other , w=ch= God
willing shall be ether by John Broadway or sooner .
STOCKWE,I,57.036.672

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you provide to paie him x=li= STOCKWE,I,57.036.673

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For if I can I will take up so much of him , w=ch= I meane to repaie to
you when Mr Sevill comes up . STOCKWE,I,57.036.674

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But now I will take it to paie for some thinges for S=r= Oliver w=ch= I
thinke to send by Baptist Jones who is here . STOCKWE,I,57.036.675

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your hastie messenger gives me not leave to write halfe that I would .
STOCKWE,I,57.036.676

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest looke for by John Broadwaie . STOCKWE,I,57.036.677

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time and ever farewell . STOCKWE,I,57.036.678

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,57.036.679

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxvij=th= of october Sunday . STOCKWE,I,57.036.680

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_036:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,57.036.681

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_037> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,57>

{ED:NO._1605,_OCTOBER_29._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
St. Maries neere Southampton , theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,57.037.682

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Mr. dawlie his absence from London , not
being yet retourned thence , is the onelie cause I send you not downe
another writt . STOCKWE,I,57.037.683

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So soone as your lres came to my handes I went about it ,
STOCKWE,I,57.037.684

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sought earnestlie for him till I understood he was not come back .
STOCKWE,I,57.037.685

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Because I am very loth <P_I,58> there should be any longer delaie , me
thinkes , if it be not knowen to Googe him self that there is processe
out for him , you having three especiall bayliffes , it would not be
hard to take him in the shire . STOCKWE,I,58.037.686

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But that wee must not relie upon but refer it to opportunitie .
STOCKWE,I,58.037.687

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It shall not cause me to be any whitt the more slack , so soone as I
can speake w=th= m=r= dawlie , by whome I procured the other writt ,
and mervaile that he was so forgetfull , as not to thinke on the
liberties of the towne . STOCKWE,I,58.037.688

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Since my first coming over I was never so much troubled w=th= buisenes
as I am at this instant , being by divers occasions diverslie
distracted . Wherefore I praie you excuse me to m=r= Lambert , that I
retourne not aunswer of his lre . STOCKWE,I,58.037.689

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And that I may not beare the whole blame thereof , assure him if S=r=
Will=m= Fletewoode had bene in towne , I would both have written to him
, and intreated S=r= Will=m= to have done the like to m=r= Symons ,
w=ch= God willing by the next carier he shall receive .
STOCKWE,I,58.037.690

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the mean time , I pray you be thankfull to him in mine , and
especially in S=r= Oliver his name , for his great care and paines in
his buisenes , assuring him he shall understand thereof at large .
STOCKWE,I,58.037.691

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to him in all respective manner , and to m=rs= Lambert : To
your self and your second self . STOCKWE,I,58.037.692

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
John Broadwaie telles me there was no order taken w=th= him for
delivering me any mony , STOCKWE,I,58.037.693

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet if he can he will help me to iiij=li= . STOCKWE,I,58.037.694

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you see my acquittaunce I praie you discharge it :
STOCKWE,I,58.037.695

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Otherwise I must shift though ill favordlie till the next weeke . Till
when and ever I comend you and all yours to the blessing of
th'almightie . STOCKWE,I,58.037.696

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,58.037.697

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxix=th= of October . STOCKWE,I,58.037.698

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_037:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,58.037.699

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_038> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,59>

{ED:NO._1605,_NOVEMBER_6._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
St. Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,59.038.700

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Howsoever the buisenes comitted to me goe
foreward yet I assure you I never sleepe in them . STOCKWE,I,59.038.701

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My care is no lesse then the trust comitted to me .
STOCKWE,I,59.038.702

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If they were in mine owne power to dispatch you should not finde any
cause of complaint for delaie . STOCKWE,I,59.038.703

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So soone as m=r= dawlie retourned from Winchester I sent you downe a
writt to the Sheriffe of the towne w=ch= I hope ere this is come to
your handes . STOCKWE,I,59.038.704

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If Freborne delivered you not a lre from me certifying that m=r= dawlie
was not retourned he much abused me to take my monie .
STOCKWE,I,59.038.705

<P_I,60>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I assure you I wrote by him to you : STOCKWE,I,60.038.706

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But because I was necessarilie to be at the Court when the other writt
was sent by m=r= dawlie , I tooke order w=th= him to write to you
thereof , w=ch= I make no doubt he hath done and the writt is w=th= you
STOCKWE,I,60.038.707

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for so himself hath told me that he sent it on Saterdaie last .
STOCKWE,I,60.038.708

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall receive hereinclosed a lre from S=r= Will=m= Fletewoode to
m=r= Symons for such writinges as he hath concerning S=t= Maries .
STOCKWE,I,60.038.709

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It is sealed , yet open that m=r= Lambert may see it , whose advise I
pray you to take in the deliverie thereof . STOCKWE,I,60.038.710

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thanke you for paying my bill STOCKWE,I,60.038.711

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wish I might have occasion to call for five times so much w=ch= I
labor for earnestlie . STOCKWE,I,60.038.712

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And thanke you also that you quicken me w=th= your lres to a more
earnest and speedie dispatch thereof . STOCKWE,I,60.038.713

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will endevor to satisfie you . STOCKWE,I,60.038.714

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you comend me to your self , your wife and all my frendes w=th=
you , STOCKWE,I,60.038.715

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so I comend you to God . STOCKWE,I,60.038.716

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,60.038.717

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this vj=th= of November . STOCKWE,I,60.038.718

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,60.038.719

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> When you have read m=r= Simons his lre fasten the seale by
dropping a litle hard wax under the seale . STOCKWE,I,60.038.720

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And if Beale be come to you write it to me , STOCKWE,I,60.038.721

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he was to paie v=li= w=ch= my Lady sent to bestowe for hir .
STOCKWE,I,60.038.722

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But he never came to me but once STOCKWE,I,60.038.723

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_038:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
& hath changed his lodging here so that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} hear
of him . </font> STOCKWE,I,60.038.724

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_039> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,60>

{ED:NO._1605,_NOVEMBER_11._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
St. Maries neere the towne of Southampton theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,60.039.725

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Nowe I perceive that you are not perswaded
that I slept in the buisenes concerning Googe . STOCKWE,I,60.039.726

<P_I,61>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For I understand by your lres sent by m=r= Paulett , not onelie that
you have received the writt I tooke order w=th= him to send you , but
also that it is served on him . STOCKWE,I,61.039.727

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thereupon I went this morning to westminster to speake w=th= m=r=
dawlie , that wee might be prepared against the daie of his apparaunce
, w=ch= is to morrowe sevenight : who asked me whether the bondes w=ch=
the Sheriffe tooke for his apparaunce were retourned hether , to the
Sheriffe here , w=th=out w=ch= he thought the Sheriffe would not
retourne a cepi to the writt . STOCKWE,I,61.039.728

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To knowe that I sought out m=r= Pedley , STOCKWE,I,61.039.729

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and certified him that processe was served on Googe ,
STOCKWE,I,61.039.730

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and asked him whether he had received any bondes for his apparaunce .
STOCKWE,I,61.039.731

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He answered me that yet he had none , but that he doubted not , but
m=r= Seyvell his deputie there , had taken them , and would send them
up w=th= the writt , when it is retournable . STOCKWE,I,61.039.732

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I did not presume of your coming , I would intreat you to see that
done . STOCKWE,I,61.039.733

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But because I understand of your purpose to be here <paren> w=ch= if
you purposed not S=r= Will=m= Fletewoode desires , and willed me to
write to you to come up forthw=th= </paren> I onelie desire you before
your coming <paren> if theise come to your handes , before you set
foreward </paren> that you talke w=th= m=r= Seyvell , and wish him to
take such order , as that the writt may be retourned , served .
STOCKWE,I,61.039.734

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The buisenes S=r= Will=m= would have w=th= you , as I conceive , is
about Townehill woodes . STOCKWE,I,61.039.735

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
More at your coming you shall understand . STOCKWE,I,61.039.736

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} as welcome as wee were to Hampton .
STOCKWE,I,61.039.737

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But if you will not be beholden to me for a welcome , but bid your self
welcome , bring some good Tobacco w=th= you . STOCKWE,I,61.039.738

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I pray you bring as much monie as you can well spare under x=li= ,
STOCKWE,I,61.039.739

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For theise suites are exceeding chargeable . STOCKWE,I,61.039.740

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= my hartiest comendacons I comitt you to God , referring
the discourse of theise treasons till wee meete , w=ch= I hope will be
very shortlie . Till when and ever farewell . STOCKWE,I,61.039.741

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,61.039.742

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xj=th= of November . STOCKWE,I,61.039.743

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_039:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your ever assured frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,61.039.744

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_040> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,62>

{ED:NO._1605,_NOVEMBER_23._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at St. Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,62.040.745

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Your paines and care in seeking to deliver
the lre to m=r= Symons is as much as you could performe .
STOCKWE,I,62.040.746

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
As you advised me I sought him at the Q. armes , where I understood by
the goodman of the house himself that he had bene here this fortnight
but is retourned back into Hampshire some three daies before your lre
came to me . STOCKWE,I,62.040.747

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So I hope that nowe you will finde some opportunitie to meete w=th= him
Which I praie you to doe as soone as you can . STOCKWE,I,62.040.748

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For though there be no great hast of those writinges he hath , yet I
would be glad to knowe his aunswer , that against the beginning of the
next terme I might be prepared in the course he drives us to take .
STOCKWE,I,62.040.749

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you thinke good in the meane time to have another lre to him from
S=r= Will=m= Fletewoode , let me knowe your minde STOCKWE,I,62.040.750

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and it shall presentlie be performed . STOCKWE,I,62.040.751

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goodge hath appeared , STOCKWE,I,62.040.752

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and wee are nowe putting in our declaracon w=ch= is readie drawen .
STOCKWE,I,62.040.753

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But because it is the chiefe grounde of our suite wee advise well w=th=
good Counsaile in the framing and correcting of it .
STOCKWE,I,62.040.754

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So it be in by the end of this terme , w=ch= God willing it shall be
w=th=out faile , it is soone inough seing he appeared but on wednesdaie
last . STOCKWE,I,62.040.755

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I should have bene glad if you had menconed the receipt of my lre sent
by m=r= Jackson . STOCKWE,I,62.040.756

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Beale went downe w=th= him , whome I praie you to tell that he hath
delt very ill w=th= me : that according to his faythfull promise w=th=
solemn protestacons he hath not sent me the vj=li= he borrowed of my
Lady , knowing that she gave me direcons for the bestowing of it in
such thinges as she wanted . STOCKWE,I,62.040.757

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I little thought he would so have failed me , <P_I,63> and requited hir
kindnes w=th= such delaies . STOCKWE,I,63.040.758

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I should not have sent such thinges as she wrote for I am sure he
should quite have lost hir favor when I had written that I could not
receive the monie , w=ch= she made as sure an accompt of as if it were
in hir purse . STOCKWE,I,63.040.759

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But seing , not to let hir be disfurnished , and to save his creditt
w=th= hir , I borrowed so much of my frendes till this time , assuring
my self on his deepe protestacons that I should not misse of it by this
carier ; STOCKWE,I,63.040.760

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you tell him that I take it very unkindelie that he will lett
me break my creditt . STOCKWE,I,63.040.761

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell , deale plainelie and roundlie w=th= him about
it , that I may not be disapointed thereof by the next carier .
STOCKWE,I,63.040.762

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And of all love I praie you if he doe faile me that you will send me so
much , STOCKWE,I,63.040.763

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For of my fayth my creditt is engaged thereon , w=ch= if I should
breake , I knowe not at such a pinch howe to be sped if I should neede
. STOCKWE,I,63.040.764

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My trust is in you , STOCKWE,I,63.040.765

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for though I depended assuredly on him , yet seing he hath after so
faythfull promise w=th= so many oathes fayled me , I knowe not howe to
continue my good opinion of him . STOCKWE,I,63.040.766

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can gett it , I praie you send it ; STOCKWE,I,63.040.767

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I would be loth to call for monie from you , till I must paie my
Lawiers w=ch= will have a good some . STOCKWE,I,63.040.768

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet I hartelie desire you if he breake w=th= me , that seing it is
borrowed to furnish my Ladie , that you will for the present send me
vj=li= , STOCKWE,I,63.040.769

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will deale w=th= him as he dealeth w=th= me .
STOCKWE,I,63.040.770

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am verie sorrie to heare of m=r= Singleton his daunger , w=ch= if you
had not certified I had sent him nowe those bokes he wrote for ,
STOCKWE,I,63.040.771

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but your report of his daungerous sicknes hath staied me till I heare
farther . STOCKWE,I,63.040.772

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If by any meanes I can I will fullfill your request in sending to his
sonne . STOCKWE,I,63.040.773

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you remember me very respectivelie to m=r= Lambert and his wife
. STOCKWE,I,63.040.774

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to your self and m=rs= Stockwell and all other my frendes
there . STOCKWE,I,63.040.775

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so I bid you good night , STOCKWE,I,63.040.776

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
x a clock this xxiij=th= of November . STOCKWE,I,63.040.777

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_040:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,63.040.778

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_041> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,64>

{ED:NO._1605,_DECEMBER_2._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured Good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at S=t= Maries neere Southampton , theise d=er= . STOCKWE,I,64.041.779

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . I hartelie thanke you that though Beale hath
failed both me and vou in payment of the monie he borrowed of my Lady ,
yet you have not failed me . STOCKWE,I,64.041.780

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It is a great discurtesie in him that receiving it when he had no other
refuge , and himself knowing that my Lady had given order howe she
would have it bestowed , that he would disapoint hir , and so much
discreditt himself . STOCKWE,I,64.041.781

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would not for twice as much have lett hir bene disfurnished of such
wantes as she wrote for , STOCKWE,I,64.041.782

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore <paren> of my fayth </paren> was faigne to borrow monie to
provide them . W=ch= he most faythfully promised should be sent me by
the next carier , w=ch= I perceive is not yet come from him .
STOCKWE,I,64.041.783

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would your leysure would have served to have written me his aunswer ,
that I might have proceded accordinglie . STOCKWE,I,64.041.784

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Lett me intreat you to tell him , plainlie and roundlie , that if he
send it me not by this carier , I will have out processe for him ,
because himself told me that he had it readie , and sware I should not
faile of it ere this time . STOCKWE,I,64.041.785

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I lett it runne on , I knowe it will be imputed to me as a fault ,
when my Lady shall heare of it , w=ch= for his sake I knowe no reason I
should beare . STOCKWE,I,64.041.786

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore if he meane as he promised , honestlie to paie it , I shall
willinglie be glad to continue his frendship and love .
STOCKWE,I,64.041.787

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But if he delude me w=th= delaies , and falsifie his oathes and solemne
protestacons to deceive me , he must not be offended if I seeke it as I
may . STOCKWE,I,64.041.788

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you can gett it I praie send it up , STOCKWE,I,64.041.789

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I am much out of monie . STOCKWE,I,64.041.790

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lawiers have robbed of all , and left me wholie disfurnished ,
STOCKWE,I,64.041.791

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I protest trewlie that I must paie all this you sent me .
STOCKWE,I,64.041.792

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And ever thanke you for furnishing me w=th= it to keepe my creditt .
STOCKWE,I,64.041.793

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you certifie me howe m=r= Singleton your father in Lawe doth .
STOCKWE,I,64.041.794

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me very respectivelie to m=r= Lambert and good m=rs= Lambert ;
to your self and your wife , and all other my frendes w=th= you . All
whome I hartelie comend to Godes holie proteccon . STOCKWE,I,64.041.795

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,64.041.796

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 2=d= of december . STOCKWE,I,64.041.797

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_041:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie
STOCKWE,I,64.041.798

<Q_STC_A_1605_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_042> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,65>

{ED:NO._1605,_DECEMBER_19._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend M=r= Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere the towne of Southampton , theise d=r= w=th= speede .
STOCKWE,I,65.042.799

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . It proves trewe that w=ch= was ever suspected
of you , that if once you tooke a taste of the sweetnes of Perry , you
would ever be sucking at the bottle . STOCKWE,I,65.042.800

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Go on STOCKWE,I,65.042.801

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and be merry , STOCKWE,I,65.042.802

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for all our frendes in Ireland I thanke God are well .
STOCKWE,I,65.042.803

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This morning I had a pacquett from thence , and therein theise inclosed
to m=r= Lambert and m=r= drake , w=ch= I praie deliver w=th= your owne
handes to him , STOCKWE,I,65.042.804

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and presse an aunswer to S=r= Oliver , w=ch= I will convey w=th= the
first . STOCKWE,I,65.042.805

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Howe m=r= Beale dealeth w=th= me you see that he yet sendes me not the
monie . STOCKWE,I,65.042.806

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie be earnest w=th= him about it that I may not faile of it by the
next carier , w=ch= is as long as he desired . STOCKWE,I,65.042.807

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Tell him w=th=all that by lres from my Lady this daie she demaundes
vj=li= x=s= though his bill be but for vj=li= . STOCKWE,I,65.042.808

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
As he answrth me so will I informe hir , w=ch= he shall perceive at hir
repaire over , w=ch= w=th=out question will be this somer if God please
. STOCKWE,I,65.042.809

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You have often promised to come up , and nowe at least w=th=out faile
at Christmas . STOCKWE,I,65.042.810

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good M=r= Thomas , if you come bring Beales monie w=th= you ,
STOCKWE,I,65.042.811

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I protest I have none . STOCKWE,I,65.042.812

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so long as that is unpaied and unspent I am willing to spare you ,
but upon urgent occasion , w=ch= I thinke the next terme will to
plentifully afford . STOCKWE,I,65.042.813

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you come not send it <paren> if you can gett it </paren> ,
STOCKWE,I,65.042.814

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
if not send me word STOCKWE,I,65.042.815

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will - STOCKWE,I,65.042.816

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
be patient . STOCKWE,I,65.042.817

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you intreat M=r= Lambert , w=ch= I had forgotten in my lres to
him , to be content to acknowledge his fine to m=r= Jackson to whome I
have long since delivered it , That it may be retourned and passed the
next terme . STOCKWE,I,65.042.818

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Mee thinkes it is long since I heard from you STOCKWE,I,65.042.819

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I excuse you ; STOCKWE,I,65.042.820

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the daies are so short and the nightes so long , and you so occupying
your self in both as that I feare me you are much wearied therew=th= .
STOCKWE,I,65.042.821

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Sytt still by the fire STOCKWE,I,65.042.822

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and keepe the swete bowle of Perry by you : STOCKWE,I,65.042.823

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
syp nowe and then , STOCKWE,I,65.042.824

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but take heede of to much . STOCKWE,I,65.042.825

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It may comfort you w=th= moderacon , and hurt you if you exceede .
STOCKWE,I,65.042.826

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God blesse you and us all . STOCKWE,I,65.042.827

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me I pray you to your wife . STOCKWE,I,65.042.828

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Oliver desires <P_I,66> to be excused to you for not writing ,
STOCKWE,I,66.042.829

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for he is as fond of his lambs woll as you are of your Perry :
STOCKWE,I,66.042.830

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but in deede he had no leysure . STOCKWE,I,66.042.831

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= all my best hart fare well . STOCKWE,I,66.042.832

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London , STOCKWE,I,66.042.833

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xix=th= of december , . STOCKWE,I,66.042.834

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_042:E2:1605:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,66.042.835

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_043> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,67>

{ED:NO._1605/6,_JANUARY_14._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at
St. Maries neere the towne of Southampton , theise d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,67.043.836

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . M=r=. Jackson his late deliverie of my lres
might give you occasion to thinke that I was more negligent in
aunswering your lres then I am . STOCKWE,I,67.043.837

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} remember that I have at any time received any
from you w=ch= I have not aunswered by the same carier , if I were in
towne . STOCKWE,I,67.043.838

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nether can I challenge you for not aunswering of any of mine , but
hartelie thanke you for your continuall forewardnes and readines
therein . STOCKWE,I,67.043.839

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope m=r= Jackson is so well recovered as to take m=r= Lambertes Fyne
, w=ch= I hartelie praie you to sollicite him earnestlie to doe .
STOCKWE,I,67.043.840

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe there will be all readines in m=r= Lambert to dispatch it ,
STOCKWE,I,67.043.841

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I would not for any thinge but passe it this tearme , w=th= other
thinges I must finish . STOCKWE,I,67.043.842

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine thinke not that I make so litle accompt of you as to have
any sale of woodes w=th=out your privitie . STOCKWE,I,67.043.843

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If S=r= Oliver who I knowe reposeth all his confidence in you should
direct it , yet would I not so neglect your iudgement as to proceede in
any such thinge w=th=out your advise . STOCKWE,I,67.043.844

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was such a mocon <paren> I will not saie a purpose </paren> in
S=r= Will=m= Fletewoode w=ch= I could not but give waie unto ,
STOCKWE,I,67.043.845

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet in my conscience he never meant it STOCKWE,I,67.043.846

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I am sure I did not . STOCKWE,I,67.043.847

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Resolve your self STOCKWE,I,67.043.848

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
there is no such intent , STOCKWE,I,67.043.849

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nether shall there be any proceeding in such or any so great a matter
w=th=out S=r= Oliver his direccon first , and your notice thereof , and
counsaile therein , so long as I have any thinge to doe for him ,
howsoever wee shift for mony to serve his tourne . STOCKWE,I,67.043.850

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If I did not esteeme m=r= Beale a good frend I could not be patient
w=th= him , being driven to such plunges as {to}_P I have bene for him
. STOCKWE,I,67.043.851

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If he performe his promise I will keepe it from my Ladie howe long he
hath deluded me , STOCKWE,I,67.043.852

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
otherwise she must want hir plate w=ch= I knowe will disquiet hir and
knowe the cause is his forbearing to paie the monie he had of hir .
STOCKWE,I,67.043.853

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But because I hope better of him I have sent you here inclosed his bill
of vj=li= STOCKWE,I,67.043.854

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but my Lady writes to me of x=s= more , w=ch= I pray demaund of him ,
w=ch= if he refuse to paie I will advise hir of his aunswer .
STOCKWE,I,67.043.855

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you be earnest w=th= him , STOCKWE,I,67.043.856

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if you <P_I,68> receive it give him his bill STOCKWE,I,68.043.857

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and take such order w=th= John Broadwaie as that I may not give him my
hand for it , because it is presentlie to be disbursed for hir owne use
. STOCKWE,I,68.043.858

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Or if he will have my acquittaunce that it may be in Beales name ,
because it shall not come in the reckoning betweene you and me .
STOCKWE,I,68.043.859

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am sorie monie comes in so hardlie STOCKWE,I,68.043.860

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I shall have occasion this tearme to use much in finishing all
thinges , besides Goudge his suite . STOCKWE,I,68.043.861

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And besides it is S=r= Oliver his pleasure I should not trouble S=r=
Will=m= but call to you as I neede , STOCKWE,I,68.043.862

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I finde him content not to be troubled . STOCKWE,I,68.043.863

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I take as great care as I can to keepe me w=th=in Townehill rentes ,
w=ch= he will be glad if it may diffraie the charge of his suites .
STOCKWE,I,68.043.864

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God send you manie a newe yeare . STOCKWE,I,68.043.865

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Comend me to all my frendes . STOCKWE,I,68.043.866

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,68.043.867

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 14=th= of Januarie . STOCKWE,I,68.043.868

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend for ever {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,68.043.869

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Keepe I praie you m=r= Beale his bill till he paie you the monie ,
w=ch= goode Captaine intreat I may receive by the next carier for his
creditt and mine , STOCKWE,I,68.043.870

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
elles shall my Lady be much disapointed , because I have nowe such
meanes to send as I shall not have againe I knowe not when
STOCKWE,I,68.043.871

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I send hir manie thinges , STOCKWE,I,68.043.872

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but hir plate she hath oftenest written for STOCKWE,I,68.043.873

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and most earnestlie expecteth . STOCKWE,I,68.043.874

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have given John Broadwaie my hand for iiij=li= sent by you .
STOCKWE,I,68.043.875

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Ever and ever I comend me to you and all yours , STOCKWE,I,68.043.876

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_043:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And long to see you . STOCKWE,I,68.043.877

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_044> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,68>

{ED:NO._1605/6,_JANUARY_23._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very assured good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell
at S=t= Maries neere Southampton theise d=r= . STOCKWE,I,68.044.878

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . Against my will , I feare me I shall be
enforced to deale w=th= m=r= Beale as he dealeth w=th= me , that is
unkindelie . STOCKWE,I,68.044.879

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I make no doubt but you have received his <P_I,69> bill , though you
write nothing thereof , w=ch= would well have satisfied me .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.880

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
On Sundaie last m=r= Rob=t= Lambert arrived here out of Ireland , upon
w=ch= occasion I must intreat a great some of monie from you .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.881

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He is to have xv=li=x=s= , for the w=ch= my Lady hath sent a note to
you ; STOCKWE,I,69.044.882

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And my self for other occasions am to have as much more , besides
Beales vj=li= . STOCKWE,I,69.044.883

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I send you not my Ladies note , because I would gladlie deliver you it
myself , and see him make his acquittaunce . W=ch= if it be not
occasion enough to bring you up , yet I pray you take it as a
sufficient occasion to come hether , STOCKWE,I,69.044.884

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I am to confer w=th= you about a serious matter conteyned in my
Ladies lres , wherew=th= I long to make you acquainted .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.885

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If therefore you will not come up , w=ch= I desire you should do , I
must <paren> if I can gett time , w=ch= I can hardlie do this terme
</paren> make a start to you . STOCKWE,I,69.044.886

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But least it might nowe hinder greater buisenesses , if there be no
great cause of staie , I praie you start hether forthw=th= .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.887

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In any case I pray you come before you lett any of the tythes or landes
of S=t= Maries , STOCKWE,I,69.044.888

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for thereon wee must confer . STOCKWE,I,69.044.889

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you come not this weeke , I praie you lett me heare from you . Till
when and ever I comend you and all yours to Gods holie proteccon .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.890

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,69.044.891

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxiij=th= of Januarie . STOCKWE,I,69.044.892

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_044:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,69.044.893

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_045> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,69>

{ED:NO._1605/6,_JANUARY_24._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good and assured frend Captaine Thomas
Stockwell at St. Maries neere Southampton theise dl=r= .
STOCKWE,I,69.045.894

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . By the carier I advertised you of m=r=
Lambert his arrivall here , w=th= a note from my Lady to you to paie
him xv=li=x=s= w=ch= I would have sent unto you nowe by this bearer who
came along w=th= him but that I staie it here till your <P_I,70> coming
, w=ch= I desire may be forthw=th= . At what time I will impart unto
you a materiall point in my Ladies lres to be treated on w=th= good
advise by yourself and me . STOCKWE,I,70.045.895

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Me thinkes if there were no occasion to drawe you hether , it might
{ED:be}_BE a sufficient cause to come and see your poore frendes that
in their love long to see y=u= . STOCKWE,I,70.045.896

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But this good Perry-liquor so pleases you , that you will not from the
bottle for any the best wine in London , w=ch= there are a great manie
of your frendes longes to bestowe on you . STOCKWE,I,70.045.897

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you take such order w=th= Beale that you bring up his monie
w=th= you , and so much more for me as will make it up xx=li= , w=ch= I
praie lett be reckoned as all other that I have , in Townehill
reckoning . STOCKWE,I,70.045.898

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But that for m=r= Lambert maie goe in S=t= Maries accomptes .
STOCKWE,I,70.045.899

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But hereof more when wee meete w=ch= I praie maie be shortlie .
STOCKWE,I,70.045.900

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane season and ever , w=th= my best comendacons to y=u= , your
wife and all my frendes , I comend you to God . STOCKWE,I,70.045.901

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,70.045.902

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxiiij=th= of Januarie . STOCKWE,I,70.045.903

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_045:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,70.045.904

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_046> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,70>

{ED:NO._1605/6,_MARCH_5._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his assured good frend Cap=tn= Thomas Stockwell at
S=t= Maries neere the towne of Southampton , theise d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,70.046.905

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . My being out of towne last weeke deprived you
of aunswer to your lres . STOCKWE,I,70.046.906

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I made hast to have mett w=th= the carier STOCKWE,I,70.046.907

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but mistaking the daie of his coming , I missed him here .
STOCKWE,I,70.046.908

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your lres and m=r= Lambertes I founde at my retourne , being very sorie
to understand of your mischaunce in your going downe .
STOCKWE,I,70.046.909

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope you have ere this very well recovered your self againe
STOCKWE,I,70.046.910

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and shall be very glad to be certified so much by your lres .
STOCKWE,I,70.046.911

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I am very sorie also that I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} satisfie m=r=
Lambert his doubtes in his lres . STOCKWE,I,70.046.912

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you tell him that I am utterlie <P_I,71> ignorant of the cause
concerning m=r= Chaundler . STOCKWE,I,71.046.913

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But if he can and please to direct me where I may receive informaccon
to satisfie his demaundes , I will make diligent search to finde out
aunswer to his doubtes . STOCKWE,I,71.046.914

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have sent you an acquittaunce but for v=li= because you have alreadie
m=r= Lambert his acquittance for xv=li= x=s= . STOCKWE,I,71.046.915

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie deale so w=th= m=r= Beale as that I may not longer be deluded .
STOCKWE,I,71.046.916

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hope he will shew himself an honest man towardes his kinde frendes .
STOCKWE,I,71.046.917

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall receive herew=th= the names of the Jurors w=ch= shall be
sumoned to be at our triall . STOCKWE,I,71.046.918

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you send me your opinion of them . STOCKWE,I,71.046.919

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Will=m= if God hinder him not will be at the assises .
STOCKWE,I,71.046.920

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the meane time I praie you make sure all your witnesses .
STOCKWE,I,71.046.921

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Excuse me to m=r= Lambert for not writing STOCKWE,I,71.046.922

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I am exceedinglie straightened w=th= time . STOCKWE,I,71.046.923

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And ever wishing your health , w=th= my comendacons to m=rs= Stockwell
and your self , I comend you to Lent . STOCKWE,I,71.046.924

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Ashwednesdaie the 5=th= of March . STOCKWE,I,71.046.925

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,71.046.926

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_046:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> M=r= Lambert , my Landlord & Landlady salute you hartely .
</font> STOCKWE,I,71.046.927

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_047> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_I,71>

{ED:NO._1605/6,_MARCH_21._LETTER_FROM_MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_
STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
{ED:ADDRESSED} To his very good frend Captaine Thomas Stockwell at S=t=
Maries neere the towne of Southampton theise d=r= .
STOCKWE,I,71.047.928

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell . If the chiefe matter w=ch= m=r= Goudge
standeth on be who is Parson of S=t= Maries , I doubt not but wee shall
do well enough . STOCKWE,I,71.047.929

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hartelie thanke you that you have discovered m=r= Smyth his
proceedinges . STOCKWE,I,71.047.930

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He will finde that it will availe him litle eyther for his owne profitt
, or to hurt our cause . STOCKWE,I,71.047.931

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Let me intreat you that if you can , you will discover what other
pointes Goudge meaneth to stand on that wee may <P_I,72> be armed
against them w=th= all the force {with}_P wee can : though I hope for
the maine point wee shall not neede to doubt . STOCKWE,I,72.047.932

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For the proofe of the trespasse I pray you to be thoroughlie provided
both-2 of your witnesses and proofes , because all will depend on them
. STOCKWE,I,72.047.933

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If possiblie you can I praie you send x=li= this weeke up by the carier
. STOCKWE,I,72.047.934

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
M=r= dawlie had viij=li= and a marke of me , for w=ch= I have his hand
, w=ch= I was faine to borrowe out of the monie you left m=r= Lambert .
STOCKWE,I,72.047.935

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe because he meaneth to send a trunck w=th= comodities over by the
threasr w=ch= goeth anent the end of this moneth he desires that he may
be furnished to doe it , w=ch= I pray you that you will see done .
STOCKWE,I,72.047.936

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thanke you for your bacon wherein your supposed or rather intended
Valentine shall have hir share . STOCKWE,I,72.047.937

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I received lres out of Ireland this last weeke where all are well .
STOCKWE,I,72.047.938

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And if you will write thether send your lres by the first carier
STOCKWE,I,72.047.939

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I shall convey them verie safe . STOCKWE,I,72.047.940

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So w=th= ten thousand thankes , and comendacons to you your wife your
father and all our frendes I comend you and us all to Godes holie
blessing . STOCKWE,I,72.047.941

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,I,72.047.942

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxj=th= march . STOCKWE,I,72.047.943

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_047:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,I,72.047.944

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_048> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,2>

{ED:NO._1606,_APRIL_24._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_C ODE

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : I hope the bragges w=ch= are nowe used for
the preventing of our iudgement and execucon against Goodge will prove
but as the former did . STOCKWE,II,2.048.945

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nay I am assured that if M=r= Knight do not both encorage and ioyne
w=th= him <paren> w=ch= I thinke he will not because he promised the
contrarie to S=r= willm Fletewoode </paren> he can have no color to
hinder the iudgement for the trespase . STOCKWE,II,2.048.946

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In my opinion you shall do well if by your self or m=r= Lambert you can
finde opportunitie to sounde m=r= knight whether he have purpose to
loose the frendship of so honorable a neighbor as S=r= Oliver is and
... such a man as Goodge is . STOCKWE,II,2.048.947

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
What is here to be done shall not be omitted when the terme begines :
STOCKWE,II,2.048.948

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Till when that both m=r= dawlie and our Counsaile be here , there can
be no directe course taken . STOCKWE,II,2.048.949

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Willm is verie carefull of it STOCKWE,II,2.048.950

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hath sent me your lres , wherof I will be as carefull as I can ,
and diligentlie followe such advise as my frendes experienced in such
causes shall direct me . STOCKWE,II,2.048.951

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine take it not unkindlie that I satisfie not your desire
<P_II,3> for Tobacco , STOCKWE,II,3.048.952

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor of my fayth I brought all I had of that kinde to winchester .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.953

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Such as wee nowe drinke I have of m=r= Lambert wherof you had had part
but that it is locked in his trunck , and he abroade .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.954

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My litle store I send you wishing it were better , and more .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.955

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You will be very welcome STOCKWE,II,3.048.956

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for m=r= Lambert makes all the hast he can towardes his wife .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.957

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Let me intreat you to take such a course if you can w=th= Beale that I
may then also have the vj=li= x=s= he owes my Lady or rather myself
STOCKWE,II,3.048.958

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have sent hir such thinges as she wrote for ;
STOCKWE,II,3.048.959

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
my stockins shall not be unpaide for w=th= many thankes besides .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.960

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= my very hartie comendacons to your self your wife your
father and all my frendes there I commend you to God .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.961

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,3.048.962

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 24=th= of Aprill STOCKWE,II,3.048.963

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_048:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured Loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,3.048.964

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_049> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,3>

{ED:NO._1606,_JUNE_5._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_COD E

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captain Stockwell : If I had not daylie expected your coming
hether according to your promise by word and lre , I would not have
forborne all this while to have written to you : STOCKWE,II,3.049.965

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I ever so hoped for your coming that I ever feared to write Least
my lres might misse of you by the waie . STOCKWE,II,3.049.966

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe hearing that before the faire you will not come I am earnestlie
and hartelie to intreat you that by the retourne of the carier you will
take order for the payment of xx=li= to satisfie Mr Robt Lambert , who
hath staied long for it . STOCKWE,II,3.049.967

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I gesse that monie falles out short w=th= you STOCKWE,II,3.049.968

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore would not till necessitie enforced me trouble you for it .
STOCKWE,II,3.049.969

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet seing it standes so much on him , And that he staies for nothing
elles , Let me hartelie intreat you that he may not be disapointed .
STOCKWE,II,3.049.970

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His trunck <paren> in assuraunce of <P_II,4> your coming hether
</paren> is alreadie sent downe , and no occasion of staie but onelie
the receipt of this monie , w=ch= is dewe to him by S=r= Oliver .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.971

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For your farther satisfaccon I have thought good to acquaint you howe
it is dewe . STOCKWE,II,4.049.972

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
There was owing by S=r= Oliver to a haberdasher in London vij=li=vij=s=
, w=ch= by his direccon Mr Lambert paied and was willed to receive the
monie againe of me , for the w=ch= I have the Haberdashers bill .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.973

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I was faine to borrowe of him out of the 25=li= he had of you to
paie m=r= dawlie viij=li= xiij=s= iiij=d= , for the w=ch= I have also
his bill . STOCKWE,II,4.049.974

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My Lady also directed him to beare Henry Sevill his charges to London
w=ch= came to xl=s= . STOCKWE,II,4.049.975

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The rest riseth in thinges Laied out for them . STOCKWE,II,4.049.976

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine nowe you see howe it growes dewe and that it is not for
myself . STOCKWE,II,4.049.977

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Though monie be not readie w=th= you yet I praie you to use some meanes
that by the carier he may be furnished because he hath staied onelie
for it this sevenight And will presentlie be gone when he is satisfied
it . STOCKWE,II,4.049.978

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For myself though I have cause yet I will not trouble you till you come
, w=ch= I feare will not be till the fare be past .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.979

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If Beale hath paied you I praie bring it w=th= you .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.980

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If not use such meanes as you thinke good to make him paie it .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.981

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
One other thing I am earnestlie to intreate you . STOCKWE,II,4.049.982

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To save myself a iourney thether I entreated m=r= Jackson to take m=r=
Lambertes Fyne for the purchase of Shurlie w=ch= he promised
STOCKWE,II,4.049.983

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And to that purpose I gave him my Dedimus potestatem .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.984

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But he hath nether passed the Fyne nor retourned the Dedimus potestatem
. STOCKWE,II,4.049.985

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I hartelie pray that you will call to him eyther to take the Fyne
<paren> w=ch= I hope m=r= Lambert will be pleased to acknowledge to him
</paren> , or elles w=th=out delaie to take the Dedimus potestatem of
him And your self intreat m=r= Lambert to acknowledge the Fyne .
STOCKWE,II,4.049.986

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He very curteouslie himself promised to do it to any body at any time
STOCKWE,II,4.049.987

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And therfore seing I have so much buisenes here desire him to be
pleased to doe it . STOCKWE,II,4.049.988

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I pray you let me have it by the beginning of the terme that I may
passe it . STOCKWE,II,4.049.989

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Hetherto you never failed me at a pinch . STOCKWE,II,4.049.990

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I never entreated any thing w=th= more earnest desire to have it
effected then {with}_P I do theise : that m=r= Lambert may be satisfied
, and the Fyne may be acknowledged . STOCKWE,II,4.049.991

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine satisfie me herein STOCKWE,II,4.049.992

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and be assured though <paren> as you see howe it concernes me , I meane
my self in particular </paren> yett I will take it as a great favor at
this time done to me . STOCKWE,II,4.049.993

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The <P_II,5> reasons you shall knowe when wee meete w=ch= I long for .
STOCKWE,II,5.049.994

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This bearer m=r= Hewett hath promised me to send some tastes of Tobacco
. STOCKWE,II,5.049.995

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you put him in minde of it . STOCKWE,II,5.049.996

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= my hartie comendacons to your wife your father and your
self , Looking for an excellent fayring besides my purslane dishes and
crewett I bid you hartelie fare well . STOCKWE,II,5.049.997

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,5.049.998

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 5th of June . STOCKWE,II,5.049.999

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured Loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,5.049.1000

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_049:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I thanke you hartely for my stockins . </font>
STOCKWE,II,5.049.1001

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_050> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,5>

{ED:NO._1606,_JUNE_17._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : But that I understood by John Broadwaie of
your absence from Southampton when he came thence , I should have bene
somewhat perplexed that I received no lres from you nor sene your self
as I have long expected . STOCKWE,II,5.050.1002

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I wrote unto you by m=r= Hewett <paren> your father in Lawe his surgeon
</paren> to intreat you to send up by this carier xx=li= for m=r=
Robert Lambert , STOCKWE,II,5.050.1003

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and acquainted you howe it is dewe to him . STOCKWE,II,5.050.1004

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He hath staied for it onelie above theise three weekes having sent
awaie his trunck and all thinges for Irelande . STOCKWE,II,5.050.1005

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine if you can by any meanes differ it no longer w=ch=
because I know it as much against your will as mine I will urge no
farther but onelie desire you to regard his long staie here .
STOCKWE,II,5.050.1006

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Farther I intreated you in any case to procure eyther m=r= Jackson to
take m=r= Lambert his Fyne for Shurlie or to gett the Dedimus
potestatem from him and your self to take and returne it that I might
passe it this terme , because I thinke this vacacon to goe into Ireland
. STOCKWE,II,5.050.1007

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
As you love me or ever loved me lett me intreat this favor at your
handes that you will do this for me before m=r= Jackson come awaie .
STOCKWE,II,5.050.1008

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have had lres out of Ireland , STOCKWE,II,5.050.1009

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and am called to for to send the accomptes of St Maries w=ch= if you
$can $not {TEXT:cannot} come up if you will send I will copie out and
satisfie them . STOCKWE,II,5.050.1010

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Moreover my Lady desires you to still her all the roses and to keepe
the water STOCKWE,II,5.050.1011

<P_II,6>

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for she thinkes to come and lay hir great belly at St Maries .
STOCKWE,II,6.050.1012

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus never more longing to see you w=th= my hartiest comendacons to
your self & all my frendes I comend you and us all to God .
STOCKWE,II,6.050.1013

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,6.050.1014

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 17th of June STOCKWE,II,6.050.1015

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,6.050.1016

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I pray you to speake to m=r= Hewett to send as he promised some
tastes of his Tobacco if he have not made it away :
STOCKWE,II,6.050.1017

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_050:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For I have spoken to some that will buy it if it be good and any thinge
reasonable . </font> STOCKWE,II,6.050.1018

<Q_STC_A_1606_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_051> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,6>

{ED:NO._1606,_JULY_20._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKW
ELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
frind Stockwell : through a little sicknes my wiffe had that stayed her
passadg she is nowe growen so great that I dare nott adventer her over
tell febrewarie next when god willing we will both be ther .
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1019

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
prepar the Tenantes to tak my land as dear as you may ,
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1020

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and att our lady day we will sell itt for 3 years and fro 3 year to 3
years or mor w=th=out changeing tenantes so they observe covnantes to
dung the land and nott to till itt . STOCKWE,II,6.051.1021

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
mack no paymentes ether about the house or otherwise , savinge those
anuityes , I mean my mother my sister will chandler and the vicar ,
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1022

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but play the good husband tell we come , that we may see the frutes off
your labour w=ch= I heare hath bin carfully performed .
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1023

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
What other instructions you have fro my wiffe effect them .
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1024

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my nephew chandler is retorned , STOCKWE,II,6.051.1025

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
And as near as I can I have iustly charged my self and you ... in my
handes . STOCKWE,II,6.051.1026

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I will iustly yeald hym to his content <paren> for we will nott differ
</paren> w=th= conveniency , being nowe charged w=th= building and
purchasing for my boyse who you shall see shortly .
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1027

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so I leave you to god . STOCKWE,II,6.051.1028

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dublin STOCKWE,II,6.051.1029

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this off July STOCKWE,II,6.051.1030

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_051:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yo=r= very loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Ol: Lambert .
STOCKWE,II,6.051.1031

<Q_STC_A_1606_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_052> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,7>

{ED:NO._1606,_JULY_20._LADY_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_ @

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
honist stocke will : by m=r= lambertes letter you may perseve his will
which I will not allter ; STOCKWE,II,7.052.1032

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
onely a gayne put you in remembranse of your formore Care desiaringe
you to continu it , and to gather in all shuch detes as ar due to m=r=
lambert , that at our Coming wee may find some frutes of that pore
letting which a long time hath yelded ous littell yet now is left the
best string to our boee tell shuch time as god pleses to settell our
pore estate here : STOCKWE,II,7.052.1033

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for my coming it is alltered onely by my gret bely which makes me oun
fitt to travill tell god of his mersie liten me : at which time I will
not falle to see sant maris and staye to be merie a while with my
frense : STOCKWE,II,7.052.1034

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for shuch whete as I writte to you for my youse , otes , butter , rose
water , frut and shuch other provisyanse pray lette them be cepte tell
our Coming which is sarten if wee live and god plese :
STOCKWE,II,7.052.1035

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
if your counttes be redie it were good you sent them over that m=r=
lambert may loucke them over at his lesur , ceping copis of them with
your self , STOCKWE,II,7.052.1036

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for wee neede see but wone yerse acounnte sinse you hade charge of the
plase . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1037

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this with my hartie remembranse to your wife and your selfe , with
thankes for all your care , I rest your a sured loving frend
{ED:SIGNED} Hester Lambert . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1038

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray be sore you send the acounntes . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1039

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
let them be sene by my coussen Lambert as m=r= Lambertes derectsione
was when wee were there . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1040

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
You must paye to my Coussen lambert to douse bolecarse youse which I
owe her xx=li= , and deliver m=r= antonie to bie me a bankett v=l=
which is all I will trobull you for tell wee mete which God send ous a
hapie meting . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1041

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:27?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_052:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
far well onist Stocke well . STOCKWE,II,7.052.1042

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_053> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,8>

{ED:NO._1606,_AUGUST_22._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_ @

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : It is seldome knowen that any Attorney can
laie iust blame on the solliciter for defect of anythinge to be done in
a cause w=ch= he undertaketh . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1043

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet because m=r= dawlie layeth the fault on me I must beare it .
STOCKWE,II,8.053.1044

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He knewe better then I what was to be done and howe to do it ,
STOCKWE,II,8.053.1045

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And should have done it accordinglie ; STOCKWE,II,8.053.1046

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But that w=ch= he omitted if I can meete w=th= m=r= Worlies clarke in
towne I will venture so much monie as an execucon comes to though it
never be served . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1047

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Till the terme I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} determine what course wee
shall take for Goudge STOCKWE,II,8.053.1048

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but I hope such as will make him paie better for it this time then he
did the last . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1049

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
His wordes hurtes us not , STOCKWE,II,8.053.1050

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nor shall do him anie good . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1051

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
S=r= Will=m= purposeth to be w=th= you towardes the end of the next
weeke , STOCKWE,II,8.053.1052

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
that is about the last of August . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1053

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will hasten him as much as I can . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1054

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so in hast till I see you I comend you and all yours to the
blessing of God . STOCKWE,II,8.053.1055

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,8.053.1056

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxij=th= of August STOCKWE,II,8.053.1057

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_053:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend forever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,8.053.1058

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_054> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,9>

{ED:NO._1606,_SEPTEMBER_15._MR._ANTHONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWEL L.}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : S=r= Will=m= Fleetewoode being made
acquainted w=th= your lre doth againe promise certainlie to be with
<P_II,10> you to meete the Byshop w=ch= if he doe <paren> as I hope he
will </paren> I am not sorrie that hetherto he hath broken so many
appointmentes of coming downe , for that I thinke his presence there
could not have bene more availeable at any time then at that time it
will . STOCKWE,II,10.054.1059

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Be you assured I will not presse him as that I hope you shall see us on
Saterdaie night at the farthest w=th= you . STOCKWE,II,10.054.1060

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But that I presume you have received the aqua-vitae I sent from my Lady
I should expostulate w=th= you that you write nothing therof .
STOCKWE,II,10.054.1061

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Excuse me to m=r= Lambert for not writinge nowe in answer to his
courteous lre to me , since the receipt wherof I have ever till nowe
missed the carrier , and would nowe have written but that I have an
assured hope to be there w=th=in a daie as soone as my lres .
STOCKWE,II,10.054.1062

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet I may not forgett to intreate you to omitt no opportunitie w=th=
Beale . STOCKWE,II,10.054.1063

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= my hartiest comendacons to your self and all my frendes
w=th= you , I take my leave . STOCKWE,II,10.054.1064

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,10.054.1065

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xv=th= of September STOCKWE,II,10.054.1066

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_054:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Antonie .
STOCKWE,II,10.054.1067

<Q_STC_A_1606_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_055> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,10>

{ED:NO._1606,_SEPTEMBER_29._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Honest Tom : I dout nott yo=r= car of my estat in yo=r= handes , nor
the well looking to my stuffe and house , STOCKWE,II,10.055.1068

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yett lett me entreat you to $be advised by my cosen lambert in any your
doutfull busines , for the letting off the farme of Townhill , or saff
providing for any thing that cheafly may concern me .
STOCKWE,II,10.055.1069

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
have an eye to my woodes STOCKWE,II,10.055.1070

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and lett what you lett to my best profitt . STOCKWE,II,10.055.1071

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my uncle wallop , Joseff tells me , hath mutch for a trifell
STOCKWE,II,10.055.1072

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I have no <P_II,11> thank for itt . STOCKWE,II,11.055.1073

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray lett hym pay to the value STOCKWE,II,11.055.1074

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
or fetch itt hom to Townhill . STOCKWE,II,11.055.1075

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
what I geve , I geve , ortherwise as to a straynger .
STOCKWE,II,11.055.1076

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
my wiffe hath written mor to you , whom we must obey :
STOCKWE,II,11.055.1077

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
good Tom mak mutch of my nephew who=m= especially I respect .
STOCKWE,II,11.055.1078

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
comend me to my cosen Pemlok STOCKWE,II,11.055.1079

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so I leave you to god . STOCKWE,II,11.055.1080

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
xxix sep=t= . STOCKWE,II,11.055.1081

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_055:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
yo=r= assured loving frind {ED:SIGNED} Ol: Lambert .
STOCKWE,II,11.055.1082

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_056> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,11>

{ED:NO._1606,_OCTOBER_14._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.} _@

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : Thinke not much I pray you that I aunswered
not your last lres : STOCKWE,II,11.056.1083

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor when you send word that w=th=out doubt you will be in towne
w=th=in seaven daies , I do certainlie looke for you ,
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1084

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and presume of your presence before my lres can come to you .
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1085

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Beleeve me STOCKWE,II,11.056.1086

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I was glad to heare of that your resolucon of coming hether ,
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1087

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for it would have been to good purpose . STOCKWE,II,11.056.1088

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And your staie <paren> being so earnestlie expected </paren> hath beene
some hinderaunce in our buisenes w=th= Goodge and other thinges .
Wherfore I desire you that , if you determine to come , you will
presentlie take your iourney , or elles send us word that wee may not
<paren> looking for you </paren> loose time . STOCKWE,II,11.056.1089

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Goodge is nowe desirous of an end ; wherin you may help us much .
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1090

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have talked w=th= him , But not arrested him because he hath put in a
writ of error , w=ch= because it may prove a tedious and dangerous
suite , considering howe our case standes , And that S=r= Oliver is
absent , And doubt of the forwardnes of some whome I will name when I
speake w=th= you , S=r= Will=m= is content to parley w=th= him .
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1091

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
He complaines you have not paid him v nobles for his ...
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1092

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I pray you paie his brother that he may not stand on such pointes .
STOCKWE,II,11.056.1093

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If there be any thinge betweene his brother and you , spare not to see
him . STOCKWE,II,11.056.1094

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I would have taken up iij=li= of the carier but that he told me you
would be here . STOCKWE,II,11.056.1095

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At his retourne , I pray you take <P_II,12> order I may have it ,
STOCKWE,II,12.056.1096

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have borrowed it STOCKWE,II,12.056.1097

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
you shall see for what when you come , w=ch= if at all I wish may be
shortlie . STOCKWE,II,12.056.1098

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And so w=th= my hartiest comendacons to your wife your father and then
to your self , for the best is alwaies last , I pray God blesse you and
all your litle ones . STOCKWE,II,12.056.1099

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,12.056.1100

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 14th of October STOCKWE,II,12.056.1101

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_056:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Antonie .
STOCKWE,II,12.056.1102

<Q_STC_A_1606_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_057> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,12>

{ED:NO._1606,_NOVEMBER_23._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_ST
OCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ca: Stocwell : howsoever I wrott to you to forbear paymentes of
necessity Mr Antony is to have his allowance STOCKWE,II,12.057.1103

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so <P_II,13> pray pay hym fro the tyme you reckoned w=th= him
<paren> as it apeareth in yo=r= last account </paren> to the last of
december next w=ch= is the next moneth ; STOCKWE,II,13.057.1104

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and the account I missed of yours I wishe it hear iff itt be att London
, STOCKWE,II,13.057.1105

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
butt m=r= Antony may nott nor will nott attend the sending for itt , if
itt be lost on the way . STOCKWE,II,13.057.1106

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I have no mor to writt but that youe expect my wiffe and me a bout
march . STOCKWE,II,13.057.1107

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and so w=th= my harty comendations to my sister Lambert and the rest of
my especiall good frendes , not forgetting m=r= drack w=th= whome I am
well pleased , not having leasure to aunswer his letter att this tym .
STOCKWE,II,13.057.1108

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
dublin : STOCKWE,II,13.057.1109

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
xxiij november . STOCKWE,II,13.057.1110

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:46?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_057:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yo=r= loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Ol. Lambert . STOCKWE,II,13.057.1111

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_058> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,13>

{ED:NO._1606,_DECEMBER_6._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.} _@

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : Your prophesie that I should heare from you
before I sent your bookes I feare me will fall out to trewe .
STOCKWE,II,13.058.1112

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
This weeke hath beene so troublesome to me since your departure that I
could not possiblie dispatch them . STOCKWE,II,13.058.1113

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you faile of them by the next , blame my negligence ,
STOCKWE,II,13.058.1114

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor if it please God to send me health , If these short daies will not
afford me time sufficient to finish them , the longer nightes shall .
STOCKWE,II,13.058.1115

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Nowe you shall receive m=es= Stockwelles hatt , I hope trimmed to hir
liking . STOCKWE,II,13.058.1116

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
It hath pleased as many as have seene it , STOCKWE,II,13.058.1117

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and so I wish it may {TEXT:to} do hir . STOCKWE,II,13.058.1118

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I received the monie you appointed m=r= Stoner <P_II,14> to paie me ,
STOCKWE,II,14.058.1119

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I protest never brought it to my chamber . STOCKWE,II,14.058.1120

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And must do the like w=th= the rest you promised to send , So that I
shall be forced to intreat you to help me to some more besides that ,
to keepe my Christmas w=th= , if Beale furnish me not , w=ch= I looke
not for . STOCKWE,II,14.058.1121

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I will not beg nor refuse any poore John . STOCKWE,II,14.058.1122

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My landlady desires you to remember hir two dosen of trenchers
STOCKWE,II,14.058.1123

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and hir neighbor M=es= Clifton , that eate the wenaison w=th= you in
the Somer , desires you to send hir three dozen of the like trenchers ,
the largest and whitest your towne affordes . For all w=ch= I will
promise Broadway shall receive monie . Till whose retourne and ever I
comend you and all my frendes w=th= you to the blessing of the
Almightie . STOCKWE,II,14.058.1124

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,14.058.1125

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 6th of december . STOCKWE,II,14.058.1126

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Antonie .
STOCKWE,II,14.058.1127

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> My Landlady comends hir to you , STOCKWE,II,14.058.1128

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_058:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and must needes have you knowe she is safely delivered <paren> God be
thanked </paren> of a pisskitchin girle . </font>
STOCKWE,II,14.058.1129

<Q_STC_A_1606_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_059> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,16>

{ED:NO._1606,_DECEMBER_22._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL. }

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : If John Broadwaie had not helped me w=th=
iij=li= I should have bene pennylesse this Christmas .
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1130

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I looked that you should have sent me some monie , if not all , to have
forewarded my iourney , w=ch= I protest unfaignedlie staies onelie
theron , STOCKWE,II,16.059.1131

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor if I had bene furnished I would have beene gon in the hollydaies .
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1132

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But I expect you w=th= patience , knowing I am expected w=th= great
earnestness by the first passidge into Ireland . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1133

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have paied m=es= Lambert xx=li= STOCKWE,II,16.059.1134

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have hir acquittaunce w=ch= I reserve till you come because John
Broadwaie made question whether he should see you before you come ; yet
honestlie if he could promised to furnish me . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1135

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie you repaie him if you see my bill , STOCKWE,II,16.059.1136

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I am yet in adoubt or rather an ague w=th= doubting whether I shall
have one penny in purse till I see you or no . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1137

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In earnest I praie send me awaie w=th= the first .
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1138

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I praie come by winchester , STOCKWE,II,16.059.1139

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and tell S=r= Jerratt Fletewoode I mervaille much I can heare nothing
from him in aunswer of my lres concerning Crawlie ferme .
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1140

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And in any case call to Martin m=r= dawlies man for the Court Roll of
Townehill for w=ch= I paid him STOCKWE,II,16.059.1141

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and bring it w=th= you . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1142

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The gossipping pie will come w=th= the purslaine dishes for the last
service . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1143

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus wishing w=th= all my hart all happiness to you , I bid you
hartelie farewell . STOCKWE,II,16.059.1144

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,16.059.1145

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xxij=th= of december STOCKWE,II,16.059.1146

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your ever loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1147

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> I pray you bring all my bills w=th= you STOCKWE,II,16.059.1148

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_059:E2:1606:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
& you shall have one for all w=ch= is best for you . </font>
STOCKWE,II,16.059.1149

<Q_STC_A_1607_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_060> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,17>

{ED:NO._1606/7,_JANUARY_2._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL. }

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : I am sorie that I shall be so long expected
before I can gett over . STOCKWE,II,17.060.1150

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
The onelie cause therof is to be dispatched by you , w=ch= I praie of
all love both-1 in regard of S=r= Oliver and my self to hasten as much
as possiblie you can , STOCKWE,II,17.060.1151

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor I knowe I am looked for w=th= great earnestnes .
STOCKWE,II,17.060.1152

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have lost some windes w=ch= I am sorie for onelie in expectaunce of
you . STOCKWE,II,17.060.1153

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Till you come I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} goe , STOCKWE,II,17.060.1154

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor I protest I speake the truth STOCKWE,II,17.060.1155

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have but $vj $=d= {TEXT:vj=d=} in my purse , STOCKWE,II,17.060.1156

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
yet must goe forthw=th= , wherfore I praie you keepe your word and come
as sone as Robt Thornegate comes back . STOCKWE,II,17.060.1157

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
God send you manie good yeares . STOCKWE,II,17.060.1158

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Honest Captaine farewell till Tuesdaie at farthest .
STOCKWE,II,17.060.1159

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,17.060.1160

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this 2=th= of Januarie STOCKWE,II,17.060.1161

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your ever loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,17.060.1162

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> M=es= Young and my Landlady comendes them to you
STOCKWE,II,17.060.1163

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_060:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and long to see my gossiping pie and purslaine dishes . </font>
STOCKWE,II,17.060.1164

<Q_STC_A_1607_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_061> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,17>

{ED:NO._1606/7,_JANUARY_13._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_S
TOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Ca=n=: Stocwell . I would gladly passe the sease w=th= my childerne in
fayre weather , so that happely my wife and I may come short of our
lady daye , though I presume we shall be in england near the tym .
STOCKWE,II,17.061.1165

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
therfor I have written to my cosen Lambert to advise w=th= you to lett
my land about hampton for 3 years , to be dunged and fensed ,
STOCKWE,II,17.061.1166

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and when we com we will conferm the same , fro 3 years to 3 years tell
I come to dwell ther myself , w=ch= I think will not be as long as I
live longer then 3 moneths in 3 years . STOCKWE,II,17.061.1167

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
My meaning is never to alter a tenant as long as he <P_II,18> husband
the land well and duly pay the rent . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1168

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
All this you most do att the highest rate {at}_P you can to advance my
rent . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1169

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
So will I lett Shirley and the tyeths above the towne ,
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1170

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I find I loose by gathering itt . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1171

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Next I would have you consult w=th= my cosen Lambert about the wood on
the manner of townhill . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1172

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
As it is itt doth me no good , STOCKWE,II,18.061.1173

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I am nott lickly to have use of itt , dwelling nott att hampton ,
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1174

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and through my Purchasing hear and building I shall have use of money .
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1175

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
therfore I would have you presentlie make knowne that you will sell as
mutch as I may have to serve our turns there , STOCKWE,II,18.061.1176

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and this most be done presently that it may be cutt in season .
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1177

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Comend me to my cosen Pemlock who I assure you will assist you for my
profitt . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1178

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Wood I heare is dear about you , STOCKWE,II,18.061.1179

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
therfor pray think of such bargayns for us that we may thank you .
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1180

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I hope Antony be by this time on his way heather .
STOCKWE,II,18.061.1181

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
So trusting much to your auncient and honest care I rest you=r= assured
loving frind STOCKWE,II,18.061.1182

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
13 Januarij STOCKWE,II,18.061.1183

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
{ED:SIGNED} Ol. Lambert . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1184

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Lett me find a lett=r= fro you att our coming to acton how you may sell
the wood , STOCKWE,II,18.061.1185

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_061:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
but do nott conclude any bargayn tell my wife or I com downe , w=ch=
shall be instantly after our arrivall . STOCKWE,II,18.061.1186

<Q_STC_A_1607_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_062> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,18>

{ED:NO._1606/7,_JANUARY_18._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL .}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : The world could not have perswaded me that at
such a pinch as this , you would have so disapointed me .
STOCKWE,II,18.062.1187

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You $can $not {TEXT:cannot} be ignorant howe earnestlie S=r= Oliver
expecteth me and those thinges of waight w=ch= must goe w=th= me ,
STOCKWE,II,18.062.1188

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
nether can you not knowe howe desirous I am to be gone to give him
satisfaccon . STOCKWE,II,18.062.1189

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have often and long since certified you that my onelie staie is for
to be dispatched from you in the performaunce of his lres .
STOCKWE,II,18.062.1190

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You first promised to be here on Christmas eve , then in the hollidaies
by your lres , and since by word that you would not faile ,
STOCKWE,II,18.062.1191

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And yet I have not so much <P_II,19> as one word from you .
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1192

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
My trewe affeccon to you makes me assure my self there is some
extraordinarie cause of your staie , STOCKWE,II,19.062.1193

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But yet seing there $is a more extraordinarie occasion of my dispatch ,
I hartelie praie you not to delaie me any longer .
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1194

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I desire much <paren> if you can to see you </paren>
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1195

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
but if you $can $not {TEXT:cannot} I praie send me that w=ch= is dewe
to me , w=ch= is as I take it xvij=li= v=s= . STOCKWE,II,19.062.1196

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you come I praie you bring all my billes w=th= you
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1197

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and I will give one for all according to S=r= Ollivers direccon .
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1198

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And coming by winchester I praie you call on m=r= dawlie his man for
the Coppie or roll of Townehill Court for w=ch= I paid him .
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1199

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus longing for you more then a thirstie man longeth for a drincke , I
bid you hartelie fare well . STOCKWE,II,19.062.1200

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,19.062.1201

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xviij=th= of Januarie . STOCKWE,II,19.062.1202

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_062:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,19.062.1203

<Q_STC_A_1607_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_063> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,19>

{ED:NO._1606/7,_FEBRUARY_3._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL .}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : Besides m=r= Stoners bill of x=li= and the
bill of iij=li= w=ch= wee agreed on , you sent me another bill of
iij=li= and a lre for iij=li= , w=ch= you write are to be charged on me
, STOCKWE,II,19.063.1204

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and therfore will me to adde sixe poundes to my generall bill and to
alter the some in your booke . STOCKWE,II,19.063.1205

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe if your self could have read you would not have beene so
mistaken . STOCKWE,II,19.063.1206

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For the one bill of the xv=th= of december I $can $not {TEXT:cannot}
denie but that I had the monie of the carier . STOCKWE,II,19.063.1207

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But if you read the bill you shall finde it was not for my use but for
yours , STOCKWE,II,19.063.1208

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for it was to paie m=es= Lambert . STOCKWE,II,19.063.1209

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You remember I received xvij=li= of m=r= davies , and to make up xx=li=
to paie hir you willed me to take so much of the Carier , w=ch= I did ,
and gave my bill , expressing wherfore it was as it sheweth .
STOCKWE,II,19.063.1210

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
So then you maie as well charge me w=th= the other xvij=li= as w=th=
this , because they were both for to make up <P_II,20> one some of
xx=li= to paie m=es= Lambert , w=ch= she received and hath given me hir
acquittaunce for it , w=ch= I gave you at your being here , and do see
that it is sett downe in your booke . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1211

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
For the note of the lre you sent me , I acknowledge that to , that at
the same time I received iij=li= for the w=ch= beside the lre I gave my
bill , w=ch= you brought up and gave in to me to make up the generall
bill . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1212

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You knowe that I never received any monie upon my lre w=th=out my bill
, STOCKWE,II,20.063.1213

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and if I should be charged both-1 w=th= bill and lre I should be
wrongfully double charged , w=ch= my hart and soul assures me you would
not do so , or so much as imagine . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1214

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
To satisfie you herein I have sought out the bill I made at the same
time amongst those you delivered in , STOCKWE,II,20.063.1215

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and have sent it to you againe w=th= the lre that it may appeare that
they were both at one time and on one daie . So that I confesse it true
that upon theise three bills of iij=li= apiece you paid to Broadwaie
9=li= , wherof iij=li= being for m=es= Lambert STOCKWE,II,20.063.1216

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the other vj=li= is allowed in my general bill , three poundes therof
in the bill you promised to send , and w=ch= I have nowe received w=th=
m=r= Stoners bill , STOCKWE,II,20.063.1217

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the other iij=li= was allowed before when you gave in the bill for
the some w=ch= the lre mentions I had taken up . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1218

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I have also sent back the bill for iij=li= for m=es= Lambert cancelled
because you are allowed it in the acquittaunce of xx=li= , wherof I
saie againe I had the xvij=li= of m=r= davies , STOCKWE,II,20.063.1219

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and the iij=li= made up the rest , w=ch= not being for my use thinke
not that I wrong you if I take it not upon me . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1220

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine , lett m=r= Singleton your father iudge hereof , see this
lre and theise billes , STOCKWE,II,20.063.1221

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I protest before God that I would not willinglie deceive you or
wrong you in reckoning for a thousand times so much ,
STOCKWE,II,20.063.1222

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And I am sure in this I do not . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1223

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you be not satisfied I praie send me word , STOCKWE,II,20.063.1224

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I shall staie till the retourne of the carier , and then go w=th=
the threasure I hope . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1225

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your booke and generall bill you shall receive back nowe by Broadwaie ,
not altered for the reasons above said . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1226

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You are so perswaded of me I hope as that for vj=li= I would not wrong
you at my departure . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1227

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you be satisfied for the iij=li= w=ch= my lres shewes I tooke up ,
w=ch= is plaine by my bill , I am sure as soone as you read the other
bill and see for what it was , you will make no question therof . So
that there is but $iij $=li {TEXT:iij=li=} in question , w=ch= my bill
given in by you shewes to be the same my lre certifies I had taken up ,
and so alreadie included in my generall bill . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1228

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine , write plainlie to me howe you finde your self satisfied
, STOCKWE,II,20.063.1229

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
for I have no lesse care to give you satisfaccon then to do my self
right . STOCKWE,II,20.063.1230

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I thanke you ten thousand <P_II,21> times for my bacon , and all other
your kindesses shewed me , w=ch= I will ever remember w=th= desire to
requite . STOCKWE,II,21.063.1231

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Of Goodge since you went I heard nothing till this daie , when I founde
a note left from him to me , that nowe his parsonadge buisenes is done
he would gladlie conclude w=th= me . STOCKWE,II,21.063.1232

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Expect one more lre from me , God willing , as I do verie earnestlie
from you , to understand how you rest satisfied w=th= this truth w=ch=
if you conceive it $can $not {TEXT:cannot} leave any scruple in you .
STOCKWE,II,21.063.1233

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And even so w=th= my ever hartiest comendacons from my Lodging I comend
you to God desiring you to Comend me to your father , m=r= Singleton ,
your wife and all my frendes w=th= you . STOCKWE,II,21.063.1234

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,21.063.1235

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this third of Febrewarie . STOCKWE,II,21.063.1236

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_063:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your assured loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,21.063.1237

<Q_STC_A_1607_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_064> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,22>

{ED:NO._1607,_APRIL_16._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_C ODE

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : Because I knowe you have bene in long
expectacon of lres from me , presuming that I left London forthw=th=
after you left me , I must needes give you a reasonable satisfaccon of
this my longer silence then you expected , and I feare have in your
conceipt blamed me for . STOCKWE,II,22.064.1238

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
After your departure , I staied in and about London upon necessarie
occasions till the 17th of march , w=ch= daie I departed thence .
STOCKWE,II,22.064.1239

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Within 14 days after , I arrived here better welcomed then I expected .
STOCKWE,II,22.064.1240

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I saw not S=r= Oliver in 7 daies after my arrivall , he being in the
Countrie at a Loddship he hath passed . STOCKWE,II,22.064.1241

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
At his retourne he used me respectivelie , STOCKWE,II,22.064.1242

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and shewed the like opinion of you . STOCKWE,II,22.064.1243

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I doubt not but when my Lady shall come over , you shall finde that
these iealousies w=ch= wee conceived upon hir lres were onelie upon
ignoraunce of the circumstances w=ch= caused them .
STOCKWE,II,22.064.1244

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
In the praising and examining of your accomptes there <P_II,23> is no
exception spoke of but onelie that there is nothing sett down for tythe
wode , w=ch= they saie was accustomed to be gathered , seeing so much
is sett downe for ayering theire stuffe . To w=ch= I aunswered that
none hath beene felled that yeldes tythe . STOCKWE,II,23.064.1245

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
You shall finde by my Lady that she is so well conceited of you as in
the letting of all she will principally be advised by you .
STOCKWE,II,23.064.1246

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Therfore dismay not yourself in any thinge . STOCKWE,II,23.064.1247

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Gather as much monie as you can . STOCKWE,II,23.064.1248

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Keepe the Townehill rentes togeather at least , and the profittes of
Shurley , STOCKWE,II,23.064.1249

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and provide tenantes if your self meane not to meddle w=th= it ,
STOCKWE,II,23.064.1250

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
ffor she may staie yet this fortnight ere she goe hence .
STOCKWE,II,23.064.1251

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Thus in performaunce of my promise and assuraunce of my love to your
self and all yours , I comitt you to God . STOCKWE,II,23.064.1252

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,23.064.1253

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
this xvj=th= of Aprill STOCKWE,II,23.064.1254

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your very loving frend for ever , {ED:SIGNED} Anth: Anto`nie .
STOCKWE,II,23.064.1255

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_064:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
<font> Burn theise . </font> STOCKWE,II,23.064.1256

<Q_STC_A_1607_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_065> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,23>

{ED:NO._1607,_JUNE_26._LADY_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_ @

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
onist stockewall it hath plesed gode safely to lande me and my to boise
; STOCKWE,II,23.065.1257

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and a Cording your desire have ete part of your saman for which I
thanke you that you so Cindely remembered my fathar .
STOCKWE,II,23.065.1258

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I perseve by my fatherse letter that you ar selling the thithes ;
STOCKWE,II,23.065.1259

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray make as much hast as you may , STOCKWE,II,23.065.1260

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and when you have leave come oupe to me , STOCKWE,II,23.065.1261

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I must specke with you presently if your bisnis will permit you ,
if not as soune as you Cane end youre present bisnis :
STOCKWE,II,23.065.1262

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and bring me as much monie as you have with you ,
STOCKWE,II,23.065.1263

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for my long Jornie hath endid mine STOCKWE,II,23.065.1264

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and tell you Come to bring me some I Cane not provide in shuch thinges
as I have nede of ... ... ... STOCKWE,II,23.065.1265

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
hoping to dispache my bisnis <em> that I </em> maye Come see sweet
$santmaries STOCKWE,II,23.065.1266

<P_II,24>

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
With my love to you <em> and to your </em> wife and all the rest of my
good frense , I rest , thankefull for all your panse
STOCKWE,II,24.065.1267

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and will Continue STOCKWE,II,24.065.1268

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
acketown STOCKWE,II,24.065.1269

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
the xxij=th= of Joune . STOCKWE,II,24.065.1270

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Your frend {ED:SIGNED} Hester Lambert . STOCKWE,II,24.065.1271

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:28?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_065:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
praye deliver these letterse as they ar derecttied .
STOCKWE,II,24.065.1272

<Q_STC_D_1607_T_DBULLIKER> <L_STOCKWE_066> <A_DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,24>

{ED:NO._1607,_AUGUST_1._MISTRESS_DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER_TO_CAPTAIN_ST
OCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
kinde Captaine Stockwell : I rest very thankfull vnto you for the great
care you had of me in that you moowed m=r= lambert for the littell
monnye I spacke vnto you . STOCKWE,II,24.066.1273

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
I have receved it accordinge vnto yo=r= directtion
STOCKWE,II,24.066.1274

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and $will $be {TEXT:wilbe} ever ready to requite this yo=r= kindenes ,
STOCKWE,II,24.066.1275

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and so not forgeettinge my best love vnto yo=r= sealfe and yo=r= beed
fellow , w=th= my kinde commendations vnto master thomas lambert and
his wiffe , I end , STOCKWE,II,24.066.1276

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
yo=rs= assured to hir power . STOCKWE,II,24.066.1277

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
{ED:SIGNED} Dowsabella Bulliker . STOCKWE,II,24.066.1278

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
from Acton this first of Auguest . STOCKWE,II,24.066.1279

AUTHOR:DOWSABELLA_BULLIKER:FEMALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_066:E2:1607:UNKNOWN:OTHER
my Lady will not leave acton untill the latter end of the nexte weeike
. STOCKWE,II,24.066.1280

<Q_STC_A_1607_FS_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_067> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,25>

{ED:NO._1607,_NOVEMBER_3._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STO
CKWELL.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom Stocwell : In serving the King I am nott my owne man .
STOCKWE,II,25.067.1281

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I am tyed to daly attendance and contrary to my expectation comanded to
be by a certayn day w=ch= is the xij off this moneth near Chester to
receave the soldiers . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1282

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray fayle nott to be hear w=th= yo=r= accomtes by saturday next att
london , or sunday . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1283

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I have digested them al ready . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1284

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this difference I most decide w=th= yo=r= self when I dout nott reason
of ether side . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1285

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
I have written to my nephew chandler to come upp .
STOCKWE,II,25.067.1286

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
so w=th= my remembrances to all my frendes I rest yo=r= very loving
frend {ED:Signed} Ol. Lambert . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1287

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:47?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_067:E2:1607:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
3 off November . STOCKWE,II,25.067.1288

<Q_STC_A_1608_T_W2FLEETWOOD> <L_STOCKWE_068> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,26>

{ED:NO._1607/8,_JANUARY_17._SIR_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMA
S_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Stockewelle , I doe not a little adwise what yow mene that yow neyther
com nor sende to my daughter lamberte , consideringe that yow ar to
paye her a good som of mony w=ch= yow have reseyved ,
STOCKWE,II,26.068.1289

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
also yow ar to paye m=es= lamberte and others there quarters Anuetyes
w=ch= yow have not don STOCKWE,II,26.068.1290

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for m=es= lamberte hathe sente to her for it , wherat I mutche marvile
. STOCKWE,II,26.068.1291

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but I moste of all marvile that yow com not considering that yow ar the
onlye mane that is to goe to S=ur= Francis vere for her mony , w=ch= no
mane cane convenientlye doe but your selfe . STOCKWE,II,26.068.1292

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
if sicknes have bine your lette , yow ar mutche to blame that yow have
not sente her worde all this while . STOCKWE,II,26.068.1293

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but to be shorte , if you tacke not a present course to com & paye her
mony , there wille be sutche order taken w=th= yow w=ch= wille be to
your discredite , STOCKWE,II,26.068.1294

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and for my owne parte yow wille iudge me to be as grete an enemy to yow
as ever I have bine a frende , if yow com note upe presentlye and
satisye all thinges as becumethe a noneste mane to doe .
STOCKWE,II,26.068.1295

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and so in haste I Comitte yow to god . STOCKWE,II,26.068.1296

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
written this xvij=th= of Januarye STOCKWE,II,26.068.1297

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
You=r= lovinge frende , redye to doe yow any good he maye if yo=r=
selfe be not the lette . STOCKWE,II,26.068.1298

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_068:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:SIGNED} W. Fletewoode . STOCKWE,II,26.068.1299

<Q_STC_A_1608_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_069> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,26>

{ED:NO._[1607/8,_JANUARY]._LADY_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWEL L.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
stockewall : I have longe expectide your Cominge oure {ED:over} a
Cording to your fathfull promis and word . STOCKWE,II,26.069.1300

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
you $can $not {TEXT:Cannot} be ignorant of the gret ronge you doue me
in absentinge your <P_II,27> selfe at this time when as you Cnoe I wase
to a made a nend with sir franseis Were . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1301

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
you Cnoe the time of his a pointment for your Coming is past longe
sinse , STOCKWE,II,27.069.1302

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
and in respect of your Cnoleg in the mattar I have for boran
{ED:forborne} the sending of anie othar to him . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1303

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
how much hurte it maye be to me you Cno not , STOCKWE,II,27.069.1304

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
tharfor let me in tret you not to rong me to much but in respect of
your one good forthwith to Come a waye . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1305

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
all bisnis else sete a side , STOCKWE,II,27.069.1306

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for tell I have endid this bisnis I $can $not {TEXT:canot} goe home
whi=ch= is the outtar {ED:utter} hinderanse to all my bisnis which I
have thar to doue . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1307

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
m=se= lambert thinkes har selfe fell delte with at your hanse that shee
is so longe oun pade . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1308

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
pray fale not to bring oupe hur monie with you . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1309

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
this expectting your spedie Comming I rest your frand if you ronge me
not to much {ED:SIGNED} Hester Lambert . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1310

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
retourne no excuseis anie longar STOCKWE,II,27.069.1311

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:29?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_069:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_SERVANT
for I protest I will not take them . STOCKWE,II,27.069.1312

<Q_STC_C_1608_T_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_070> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,28>

{ED:NO._1607/8,_FEBRUARY_11._CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL_TO_SIR_WILLI
AM_FLEETWOOD.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Right Wor=ll= : my humble duty remembred . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1313

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Whereas at the sealing of S=r= Ewstas heartes Lease of St Maryes , it
was expected That I should lawfully have & take all such Muck soyle and
donge w=ch= were in the yardes & groundes there , And the same
Agreem=t= was confirmed under yo=r= wor=ps= hand , as I have it ready
to shew , Now so it is if it may please yo=r= wor=p= , That S=r=
Ewstace Heart doth deny me this said dung and sayes I shall have none
there , STOCKWE,II,28.070.1314

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
and thereupon I shewed him yo=r= wo=ps= hand , who litely regarded the
same , and still sayes I shall have none there . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1315

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Theis are humbly therefore to intreat yo=r= wor=p= to stand my good
freind in this matter , and to write unto S=r= Ewstace Heart that I may
be p'mitted <paren> according to yo=r= wor=ps= p'mise and agreem=t=
</paren> to have & take awaie the said dung & soile , w=ch= otherwise
will be to my great losse & hinderance by reason

it will at this tyme stand me in great stead , or els to give
satisfaccon . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1317

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
I humbly beseech yo=r= wor=p= to Consider of my Case and to afford me
yo=r= helping hand that I may have my due w=th=out any further
Complaint to any . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1318

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
The p=r=tended buisnes I have in hand I $can $not {TEXT:cannot} goe
forward for the want thereof , STOCKWE,II,28.070.1319

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
and thereby it may turne to my utter undooing . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1320

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And thus I humbly take my leave this xj=th= Feb :
STOCKWE,II,28.070.1321

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_070:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= Wor=ps= to comand Tho: Stockwell . STOCKWE,II,28.070.1322

<Q_STC_D_1608_FN_HSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_071>
<A_HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_WIFE>
<A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_HUSBAND>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,29>

{ED:NO._1607/8,_FEBRUARY_14._MRS._HESTER_STOCKWELL_TO_CAPTAIN_THOM
AS_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my loving husband Thomas Stockwell at the Queens armes at hoberne
London . STOCKWE,II,29.071.1323

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Loving husband I comend me to you &c requesting you to repayre homward
assoone as you may ; STOCKWE,II,29.071.1324

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and if it be trew that <P_II,30> you are in sudch great daynger to S=r=
olliver as {in}_P the wordlie reportes lett it not greve you
STOCKWE,II,30.071.1325

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I doubt not but you have wherw=th= to pay them .
STOCKWE,II,30.071.1326

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if nott we will try our ffrindes . STOCKWE,II,30.071.1327

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
frish {ED:French_?} Johne sayth you ar in dett iiij=xx li=
{ED:four_score_pounds} & through m=es= calthrop hir advize have staid
the hay in the Barne w=ch= makes us table talk every wher .
STOCKWE,II,30.071.1328

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I think you understand therof STOCKWE,II,30.071.1329

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for it was Willms Jorny to acton to know my Ladyes pleasur .
STOCKWE,II,30.071.1330

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
so I pray god send you health . STOCKWE,II,30.071.1331

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hampton STOCKWE,II,30.071.1332

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the xiiij=th= of Febrew=y= STOCKWE,II,30.071.1333

AUTHOR:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_071:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yo=r= Loving wiff {ED:SIGNED} Hester Stockwell . STOCKWE,II,30.071.1334

<Q_STC_C_1608_FO_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_072> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_W_PERRY> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,30>

{ED:NO._1607/8,_MARCH_9._CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL_TO_W._PERRY.}_CO DE

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
Frind Perry , I comend me unto you wishing yo=r= good health .
STOCKWE,II,30.072.1335

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I have taken much paynes about the Chantry bussines this vj years
STOCKWE,II,30.072.1336

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and have found S=r= olliver and my Lady since that tyme & tymes before
very kynd towardes me , STOCKWE,II,30.072.1337

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and now it greiveth me not a litle at parting to receive so much
disgras as I have donne , being allwayes desyrous to give Contentment
to all those that hath repossed trust in me . STOCKWE,II,30.072.1338

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
howsoever by my negligience in some small matters they ar mooved
against me , w=ch= being reason I yeald therunto ;
STOCKWE,II,30.072.1339

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
and althoughe I am much inferrier unto them I desire not to be over
borne , but that they will yeald unto reasone as well as my sealf .
STOCKWE,II,30.072.1340

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I hope S=r= willm Fleetwood being the principall man tuching these
bussines in S=r= olliver his absence will not be scylent if matters
should be brought in question . STOCKWE,II,30.072.1341

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
if my allowance be detained it is ympossible for me w=th= out Roggery
to follow other mens bussines . STOCKWE,II,30.072.1342

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
if <P_II,31> I have wronged my sealf by forgettfullnes , good natur and
reason would consider it , especiallie those whome it Concerneth to
right it . STOCKWE,II,31.072.1343

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
if all thinges be weighed indefferently questionles all thinges will be
ended ffrindlie . STOCKWE,II,31.072.1344

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
while I was about S=r= olliver his bussines my goodes being stayed hath
bred such clamerous speches whe 'soever I am aquaynted the rumer wherof
hath donne me so much descredett that my undoing is hastened therby not
only that way but many other wayes , STOCKWE,II,31.072.1345

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
for whill discreadit is at home my expencis is much a broad in S=r=
olliver his affayres , for w=ch= I demaunded nothing ,
STOCKWE,II,31.072.1346

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
but I may doubt the more considering I am barred of my Entertaynment .
STOCKWE,II,31.072.1347

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:W_PERRY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_072:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_OTHER
I saye againe I desyre in all thinges that reasone may rule .
STOCKWE,II,31.072.1348

<Q_STC_C_1608_T_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_073> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,37>

{ED:NO._1608,_AUGUST_1._CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL_TO_SIR_WILLIAM_FL
EETWOOD.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Right Worship=ll= : my humble dewtie remembred &c :
STOCKWE,II,37.073.1349

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
It is not unknowne what truble I am brought into by taking bussines in
hand for greater persons then my sealfe , w=ch= otherwiz would mor
Equallie be considered . STOCKWE,II,37.073.1350

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
my hope is in you to remidy a great p=t= therof , having so much
intrest and fatherlie Care of S=r= olliver and my Ladie and an equall
ballance and Indifferant hand to be borne on my behaulf :
STOCKWE,II,37.073.1351

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Considering you have benn aquaynted with the whole bussines of S=t=
marryes from the <P_II,38> begining : I besech you way {ED:weigh} but
the care and travill I have taken : I confes indeed bownd ther unto :
STOCKWE,II,38.073.1352

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
but never expected such reward . STOCKWE,II,38.073.1353

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
As in the Townhill bussines it may verry well be thought I was
faythfull in keeping possession . STOCKWE,II,38.073.1354

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
I cam not in bed a month together : STOCKWE,II,38.073.1355

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And if I would have played the trewant therin I might have bennefitt my
sealf : w=ch= I repent not , STOCKWE,II,38.073.1356

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
nether will I tell I see how I shall be dealt w=th=all :
STOCKWE,II,38.073.1357

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Shurlie Bussines allso I was not slacke in following what was for S=r=
olliver his profitt , whear m=r= Lambert Laid challing to groundes
which would yeeld a yeare , and inioyed p=t= therof two years in Rogers
tym . STOCKWE,II,38.073.1358

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
I made search and w=th= some expences of my owne to incitt ancient men
to speak the trewth although it was by his kinsman wrongfullie
w=t=houlden : STOCKWE,II,38.073.1359

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And through my industery the right was knowne STOCKWE,II,38.073.1360

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
and the detainer therof now proveth such a secrett Enemy of myne that I
am not of strengthe to prevent this undeserved mischeef to my undoing :
STOCKWE,II,38.073.1361

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
the case being honnest it nothing repentes me In regard wherof I crave
no groat recompence but to have right and equall dealing :
STOCKWE,II,38.073.1362

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And then shall you find S=r= olliver in my dett allmoast so much as he
doth challing of me STOCKWE,II,38.073.1363

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
and hime sealf paid what is demanded . STOCKWE,II,38.073.1364

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And if the same will or shall not be righted I must be inforced to mak
Complaint whear I may have remidie STOCKWE,II,38.073.1365

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And shall speedilie be donne before dice are made of my bonnes as hath
been thretened : STOCKWE,II,38.073.1366

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
It may p'happs be thought that whearas I was contented Arbitrators
should end it and that I agree nothing therunto :
STOCKWE,II,38.073.1367

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
it shall be knowne that the articles weare drawen nothing Indifferent
but those chosen on my p=t= wear but to sett as stockes or stones
wherbie I held I was caught but in a trapp . Wherefore in all humblenes
I humbly beseeche you , in the way of a true and faithfull Justice as
ever I have knowne you , to <P_II,39> remember my pore & weake estate ,
and in compassionat ... w=th= yo=r= helping hand ,
STOCKWE,II,39.073.1368

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
otherwise my self wief and vj small Children shall be utter ruynated &
undone forev=r= , STOCKWE,II,39.073.1369

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
& must be driven to have to leave gods & the worlds protexion ,
STOCKWE,II,39.073.1370

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
for returne into the Cuntry I will no more . STOCKWE,II,39.073.1371

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
I have left them by this reason destitue of a house to put there heades
in , & all otheer provision for their livelyhoode , as my Lady Lambert
& M=rs= well knowes . Wherfore good Sir I beseche you to take some
course in my behalf that I may goe aboute some busines as in former
tyme I have done to seeke for their reliefe & my owne .
STOCKWE,II,39.073.1372

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
And thus I humbly take my leave , this half yere day .
STOCKWE,II,39.073.1373

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_073:E2:1608:COPY:OTHER
Stockwood . STOCKWE,II,39.073.1374

<Q_STC_A_1608_T_W2FLEETWOOD> <L_STOCKWE_074> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]>
<R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,40>

{ED:NO._1608,_SEPTEMBER_13._SIR_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_TO_MRS._STOCKWEL L.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
M=rs=: Stockwell : yo=r= husband hath taken his Iorney w=th= my
daughter Lambert into Ireland about some affayres of his owne ,
STOCKWE,II,40.074.1375

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and will make his retorne assoone as he cane . STOCKWE,II,40.074.1376

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
you shall receave certaine thinges of his by the Caryer of Hampton
w=ch= hath Layed out viij=s= for yo=r= husband att the Inne wher he
laye . STOCKWE,II,40.074.1377

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yor husband would intreat you to receave these thinges and paye the
Carryer . STOCKWE,II,40.074.1378

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
So in hast I leave you to the mercifull p'teccon of thalmighty .
STOCKWE,II,40.074.1379

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Acton STOCKWE,II,40.074.1380

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the xiij=th= of September STOCKWE,II,40.074.1381

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_074:E2:1608:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yo=r= assured frend {ED:SIGNED} W. Fle'woode . STOCKWE,II,40.074.1382

<Q_STC_C_1608_FN_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_075> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_--->
<R_HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_II,40>

{ED:NO._1608._CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL_TO_HIS_WIFE,_HESTER_STOCKWE LL.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Good Hester , marvell not althoughe in all this time you have not hard
from mee . STOCKWE,II,40.075.1383

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
it was not wonte to be my orders , STOCKWE,II,40.075.1384

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but expectinge allwaies a speedie end of my greate businesse which you
are verie well accquainted withall are nowe <paren> god I give him
thankes </paren> finished , which I hope will be both-3 to yo=r=
comforte & mine . STOCKWE,II,40.075.1385

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
In the mean time I intreate you to be patiente . STOCKWE,II,40.075.1386

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my ladie hath dealte verie honorablie with me , and S=r= will=m=
Fleetwod her father allso whoe ever hath bene my good frend .
STOCKWE,II,40.075.1387

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
my ladie desirouse to doe me all the good shee can and to that intent
both shee and her father have p'swaded me to goe with her into Irland ,
which , if it please god my proceedinges take effecte , which I make no
doubte of , STOCKWE,II,40.075.1388

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
beinge soe ported by so good frendes , will be for my greate good as
long as I live . STOCKWE,II,40.075.1389

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the debtes which are owinge me I have sente you heere inclosed in this
letter , STOCKWE,II,40.075.1390

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and will=m= Netley can directe you theirin . STOCKWE,II,40.075.1391

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have heere <P_II,41> also sent you a note of the soile which lieth in
the chauntree backside which John Kinge had soulde to m=r= John Knight
, and was staide by my ladie , which nowe under theire handes you may
p'ceive by this writinge is graunted unto me . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1392

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
theirfore if it please S=r= Ewstace hart to accepte of it givinge
reasone for it as some of yo=r= honest neighboures censure it worth let
him have it . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1393

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I protest unto you it stoode me in xv=li= and upwardes .
STOCKWE,II,41.075.1394

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
John Kinge will=m= horne and Thomas Smith I thinke fittest to deale in
that matter betweene you and him . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1395

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yf he refuse it , my desire is that m=r= John Knight should have the
next p'ffer theirof whoe was desirouse to have had it before .
STOCKWE,II,41.075.1396

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I lefte order with goodman Harvard to sell the dung cart and wheeles I
left , allso yoakes and chaines in Nicholas Woll his stable .
STOCKWE,II,41.075.1397

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
let Thomas Smith make salle theirof . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1398

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have sent you allsoe aleter herinclosed to be delivered to my brother
Capuet STOCKWE,II,41.075.1399

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell him it is from Thomas willims to m=r= Barlowe .
STOCKWE,II,41.075.1400

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
let him heare the readinge of it if he may STOCKWE,II,41.075.1401

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for heerin he iustifieth that he deliv=r=ed me noe more but three
quart=rs= of wheate accordinge to his maisters directione which I
borowed of him . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1402

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
that three quarters was repaide and received by John Barlowe , soe that
m=r= Barlowe oweth me for xvij busheles of wheate at eleven groates
{ED:3s._8d.} a bushell deliv=r=ed to his men by his order at Michaelmas
last . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1403

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have taken order with S=r= will=m= Fleetwodd conserninge my house ,
that m=r= chaundler shall doe nothinge in that matter tell my returne
which $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} <paren> if please god </paren> before
allhalowtide . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1404

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
the colt in Leanorde Mills his grownd hath beene theire at michaellmas
therteene weekes . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1405

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
hee said he would have xij=d= a weeke STOCKWE,II,41.075.1406

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I thinke he will deale more frendlie with me consideringe howe I
have allwaies used him . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1407

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
My brother Caplen saide he woulde put him to m=r= Googes .
STOCKWE,II,41.075.1408

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray you lett him doe soe . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1409

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yf you thinke fitt sell away the nagg . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1410

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
you may let yo=r= brother slett {ED:sub-let_?} the after grasse of the
medowe which I tooke of James Bush . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1411

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
if you receive moneye for theis forsaide matters you may if you thinke
goode redeeme the thinges you knowe wheare . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1412

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I have also written to S=r= will=m= Fleetwodd to send you five poundes
to supplie yo=r= wantes till my returne , which I hope $will $be
{TEXT:wilbee} p'formed . STOCKWE,II,41.075.1413

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I doubt not butt ere this time goodman Angles <P_II,42> hath sent you
therteen hundred of wood accordinge to his faithfull p'misse .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1414

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
once more I commend mee to thy selfe and to yo=r= mother
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1415

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and tell her thoughe my crosses in the world have bene trowblesome unto
her I doe not doubt but in shorte time shee shall receive greate
comforte . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1416

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
comend me hartelie to my brother Perie and his wife , my sister and my
chilldren . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1417

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I must not forget m=r= Pedley and his wife , my gossipp bonney with his
wife , with my gossip kinge and his wife verie hartelie .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1418

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
good Hester let not my children bee absent from the schoole
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1419

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and let my sister tende them STOCKWE,II,42.075.1420

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and desire her to be content with all thinges till my returne :
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1421

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I pray you make the best meanes you may to keep them warme this
winter . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1422

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
If I can conveniently I will send you the more Cowne {ED:?} .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1423

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
intreat all my frendes to have pacience with me till my returne
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1424

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I will p'forme the pt of an honest man with all men , god
willinge . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1425

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Hester , theire are reaconinges betweene my gossip kinge and my selfe I
thinke some ten or aleaven poundes that I owe him .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1426

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he received before Chrismas of m=r= John Knight three poundes and of
the same man at Shroustide seven powndes . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1427

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
he received allsoe of will=m= Feverell about Ester ten shillinges .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1428

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
allsoe he oweth me foure quarters and six bushells of oates at ten
shillinges the quarter . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1429

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope verie speedilie to see the disposeinge of theis businesses my
selfe . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1430

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
thus comendinge me once more againe to thy selfe and to my childe=r= ,
prayinge god to blesse them , with remembraunce to all my frendes , I
leave and comitt you all to godes protectione . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1431

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I hope wee shall have amerier meetinge then we hadd apartinge .
STOCKWE,II,42.075.1432

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:HUSBAND:_:_
RECIPIENT:HESTER_STOCKWELL[N.PERRY]:FEMALE:WIFE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_075:E2:1608:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
yo=r= verie lovinge husband Tho: Stockwell . STOCKWE,II,42.075.1433

<Q_STC_A_1609_TC_AANTONIE> <L_STOCKWE_076> <A_ANTHONY_ANTONIE>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FRIEND> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FRIEND> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,42>

{ED:NO._1609,_APRIL_27._MR._ANTONY_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL.}_C ODE

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Good Captaine Stockwell : At my coming from dublin , my Lady Lambert
desired me to certifie you That she mervailed very much that in your
last lres thether <paren> w=ch= came w=th= the ship <P_II,43> you sent
fraughted to dublin </paren> you made no mention of the matter w=ch=
was comitted to your care betweene S=r= Oliver and S=r= Francis Vere .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1434

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Your former lres <paren> as ... told me </paren> advertised of hope
<paren> by your paines </paren> of a good and speedie end therof .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1435

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But having not one word therof in your last lres , she is fearfull the
matter goeth backward , yther for want of remembraunce or for lack of
care to follow it . STOCKWE,II,43.076.1436

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
When I told S=r= Will=m= Fleetwoode therof , He excused you
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1437

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
and sayd you had nether forgotten or neglected it , but carefully and
painfully endevored to gett it , w=ch= he promised he would certifie to
my Lady . STOCKWE,II,43.076.1438

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Yet for hir better satisfaccon you should do well by a lre from your
self to certifie hir the trewe cause why it thus lingreth and is not
brought to an end , seeing there is nether deniall or want of abilitie
to hinder it . STOCKWE,II,43.076.1439

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
I knowe it is earnestly expected and the rather at this time because
now verie shortlie Brookes his debt <paren> for w=ch= S=r= Will=m= is
bound </paren> is to be payd , whereto that would give a great help .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1440

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If you send your lres , I will see them safelie <paren> god willing
</paren> conveyed . STOCKWE,II,43.076.1441

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
But because I long to see you and can not have leysure to start downe
thether , if your occasions did drawe you hether I should be more glad
to see you and tell hir your aunswer then send your lres .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1442

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
They saye howe there is excellent good Tobacco w=th= you .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1443

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
If there be , I pray you let us be partaker of the best .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1444

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
Remembr me I pray you in all respective sort to m=r= Singleton , to
your wife and all my frendes there that remember me .
STOCKWE,II,43.076.1445

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
And if here or whersoever I shall live it lye in my small power to do
honest Captaine Stockwell any pleasure I pray you account of me as you
shall ever finde me to be Your assured loving frend {ED:SIGNED} Anth:
Antonie STOCKWE,II,43.076.1446

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
London STOCKWE,II,43.076.1447

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_ANTONIE:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FRIEND:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_076:E2:1609:AUTOGRAPH:FRIEND
the 27th of Aprill . STOCKWE,II,43.076.1448

<Q_STC_C_1609_FS_HLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_077> <A_HESTER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1579?> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,46>

{ED:NO._1609,_AUGUST_16._LADY_LAMBERT_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS_STOCKWELL. }

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Tom Stockwell . M=r= Lambart gave you directions to sollicite S=r=
France Vere for his resolute answere concerninge his debtes .
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1449

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
you never yet gave us any certainty of his resolucon or what you had
done w=th= sute whether he weare yet at any pointe w=th= my brother
hayes for the money he challengeth from m=r= lambert .
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1450

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
you knowe well m=r= lambert nevr used any of Sutes p'vicon but left yt
all w=th= my brother Heyes and his fact=r= of whome ere this tyme
<paren> yf alredy he have not </paren> he might have recov=r=ed his
money . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1451

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray you take so much paynes and care in the matter as to conferre
againe w=th= m=r= Sute and understand wherfore he seeketh not
satisfaccon at my brother hayes , havinge byne made soe throughly
acquaynted that m=r= Lambart gave his byll but as an asurance for his
p'cion {ED:protection} Yf yt had byne spent , STOCKWE,II,46.077.1452

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and you well knowe he lefte behind all that and much more of his owne
p'vicion . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1453

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Also you shall do well to speake w=th= my brother Heyes and to knowe
what compte he hath or purposeth to take w=th= m=r= sute for m=r=
lambertes discharge and to deale throughly w=th= hym accordinge to m=r=
lambertes direction yf he gave you any and as you understand the
busines betwene them . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1454

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Touchinge the busines w=th= S=r= France Vere I pray you repaier to hym
, STOCKWE,II,46.077.1455

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
intreat his full answere , STOCKWE,II,46.077.1456

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
spare not to put him in mynd of the truth accordinge to yo=r= knowledg
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1457

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and make my Father acquainted w=th= his mynd STOCKWE,II,46.077.1458

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and intreat his advise and furtherance therin STOCKWE,II,46.077.1459

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and w=th=all to signify to m=r= lambert assone as possibly you can his
anwere . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1460

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yo=r= paines and chardge $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} considered ,
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1461

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yf you can worke hym to any good I will further respect you .
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1462

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
The m'chant you sent from Hampton although he brought nothinge but what
was very ordynary for yo=r= sake had what favour m=r= Lambert and I
could shewe hym . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1463

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
I sent my Coatch to fetch his goods from shipbord bycause they should
not be seased upon . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1464

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
he uttered all as deare as the m'chants in dublin sell theirs .
STOCKWE,II,46.077.1465

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
M=r= Lambert helped hym to alycense for the wheat he p'mised you to get
alycense for . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1466

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
he brought yt reasonable STOCKWE,II,46.077.1467

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and shipped yt w=th=out trouble , STOCKWE,II,46.077.1468

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and yf you had not yo=r= share in yt or some consideracon for yt yt is
yo=r= falte , STOCKWE,II,46.077.1469

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
for yt was p'vided for yo=r= sake . STOCKWE,II,46.077.1470

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Yf S=r= Ewstace harte w=t=hould from you yo=r= soyle yt {ED:is}_BEP
more then I ever allowed hym , STOCKWE,II,46.077.1471

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
but such as was myne I gave hym STOCKWE,II,46.077.1472

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
but yo=rs= <P_II,47> was excepted as he might see by the note
subscribed by my Father and warren , STOCKWE,II,47.077.1473

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and I doubte not but he will allowe you for that w=ch= was p'perly your
owne . STOCKWE,II,47.077.1474

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Thus comending to yo=r=self and yo=r= wife I rest yo=r= assured Frend
{ED:SIGNED} Hester Lambert . STOCKWE,II,47.077.1475

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
Kilbegan STOCKWE,II,47.077.1476

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
this 16th of August . STOCKWE,II,47.077.1477

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
I pray you fayle not STOCKWE,II,47.077.1478

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
but goe p=r=sently about this busines STOCKWE,II,47.077.1479

AUTHOR:HESTER_LAMBERT:FEMALE:_:1579?:30?
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_077:E2:1609:COPY:FAMILY_SERVANT
and send us answer $wth $all {TEXT:wthall} the speed {with}_P you can .
STOCKWE,II,47.077.1480

<Q_STC_D_1608_T_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_078> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_FRANCIS_VERE>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1561?>

<P_II,47>

{ED:NO._1608,_OCTOBER_23._SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_SIR_FRANCIS_VERE.} _@

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
{ED:ADDRESSED} To the Hon'able S=r= Fraunce Vere , knight , Lord
governor of the Briell , etc . STOCKWE,II,47.078.1481

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
My verrie good Lord : If my estate and p=r=sent meanes from his Ma=ie=
were by many degrees nearer yo=rs= , I would scante twise aske myne
owne , but leave it to yo=r= owne disposition and tyme , w=ch= I
p=r=sume wold not defeate me of my right . STOCKWE,II,47.078.1482

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
As I am fourced to crave this due debte w=ch= you in honnor may not
refuse , nor tearme that complementall , w=ch= <paren> in iudiciall
hearinge </paren> will prove substantiall , Soe lett me intreate yo=r=
Lordshipp , oute of the ancient Love I have borne you and the p'petuall
right I ever did you , to lett noe other iudge betwene us then yo=r=
self : STOCKWE,II,47.078.1483

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
I will rather lose somethinge to keepe yo=r= Love then gaine all to
fill <P_II,48> other mens mouths w=th= our questions .
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1484

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
If the questions weare materiall , whether Curtervile gave you the
dolors , or such money as was appointed , w=ch= he receaved at
Amsterdam by Count Overstens bill , I knowe yo=r= owne conscience will
either-3 acknowledge the receipt theof or the imployment to yo=r= use .
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1485

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
In those daies dolors , or what soe ever it was , would not be
neclected by you . STOCKWE,II,48.078.1486

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Curtervile <paren> when myself S=r= Harry Fowlkes and others sent to
Skinkesconce to receave moneyes from Count Oversten and weare glad to
take such coyne as we could gett though to lose </paren> ,
{TEXT:Curtervile_repeated} refused the dollors in w=ch= our payment was
made STOCKWE,II,48.078.1487

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and had the Counte his bill to Amsterdam for the money : w=ch= I will
receave the Sacrament on that Curtervile and yo=r=self did acknowledge
to me full satisfaccion therof , I meane of as much as was assigned by
Count Oversteen , STOCKWE,II,48.078.1488

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
but the certaine some I will not chardge my memorie w=th= ,
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1489

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
for by Christ I knowe not ; though Stockwell and others name the some
to be dollors . STOCKWE,II,48.078.1490

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
There be Circumstance inoughe to prove the debt :
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1491

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And I am assured <paren> oute of England </paren> that the prooffes I
have <paren> that you p'mised to pay me att the birth of my firste
Childe </paren> , is sufficient if it weare to recover many thousandes
. STOCKWE,II,48.078.1492

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And end there must be , STOCKWE,II,48.078.1493

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
lett not the Lawe decide yt , STOCKWE,II,48.078.1494

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
for I hate it ; STOCKWE,II,48.078.1495

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and have no doubt that yo=r= Lo: will put me to yt .
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1496

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
To yo=r= Lo: yt is nothinge , to me to much to lose .
STOCKWE,II,48.078.1497

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
I desire to dwell in yo=r= love and favour , STOCKWE,II,48.078.1498

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and rest as ever yo=r= faithfull lovinge freind to doe yo=r= service ,
{ED:SIGNED} Ol. Lambert . STOCKWE,II,48.078.1499

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
dublyne STOCKWE,II,48.078.1500

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:48?
RECIPIENT:FRANCIS_VERE:MALE:_:1561?:47?
LETTER:STOCKWE_078:E2:1608:UNKNOWN:OTHER
this 23=th= of October . STOCKWE,II,48.078.1501

<Q_STC_A_1610_T_W2FLEETWOOD> <L_STOCKWE_079> <A_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,49>

{ED:NO._1609/10,_MARCH_17._SIR_WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_TO_CAPTAIN_THOMAS
_STOCKWELL.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Stockwewelle I delivered to yow a bille of Curterviles for mony he
receyved of S=r= oliver lamberte , and also a Bille of S=r= <P_II,50>
Francis veres brothers w=ch= he lickewise reseved of S=r= olivers of a
hundrethe poundes or thereaboutes in the lowe countries , all w=ch= is
due to S=r= oliver lambarte , w=ch= billes you had w=th= yow to Sir
Francis Veres when yow wente laste to him . Wherfore I praye you to
sende them to me w=th= speede STOCKWE,II,50.079.1502

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for nowe wee have occasion to use them , STOCKWE,II,50.079.1503

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I never spacke w=th= you aboute these matters sithens yo=r= laste
beinge w=th= Sir Francis vere . STOCKWE,II,50.079.1504

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so in haste I Comitte yow to the lorde : STOCKWE,II,50.079.1505

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
this 17=th= of Marche . STOCKWE,II,50.079.1506

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FLEETWOOD_2:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_079:E2:1610:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
yo=r= lovinge frende {ED:SIGNED} W. Fletewoode . STOCKWE,II,50.079.1507

<Q_STC_C_1611_T_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_080> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_1560?>

<P_II,51>

{ED:NO._1611._STOCKWELL'S_PETITION_SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT'S_ANSWER.}_C ODE

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:51?
LETTER:STOCKWE_080:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
To the honnerable my Singuller m=r= S=r= olliver Lambert knight , one
of his maj=ties= most Honerable privy Counsell in the kingdome of
Ireland . STOCKWE,II,51.080.1508

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:51?
LETTER:STOCKWE_080:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
In all humble manner yo=r= poor petitioner Thomas Stockwell being
ymprizoned for certayne debtes w=ch= I do not denny , and <P_II,52>
being in that Case not hable to pay the some at ther demand but willing
assoone as it pleaseth god to give successe unto my Industrey , I
intreat humbly y=r= honners good word unto m=r= mayer who I doubt not
but therebie will the mor consider of my Estate , and through his
gentle inClynation toward me a poor se=r=vite=r= so long tym unto his
Frindes and allies , that by his wo=r=pps good p'swassion unto my
Credito=rs= ther abdurat hartes may be changed , otherwise my sealffe
wiff & Familly $can $not {TEXT:Cannot} avoyd a Further affliction ,
wherin I shall herby allwayes be dublie bownd to pray for yo=r= honners
encrease of happines . STOCKWE,II,52.080.1509

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:_:1560?:51?
LETTER:STOCKWE_080:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
Yo=r= honners poor peticioner Thomas Stockwell . STOCKWE,II,52.080.1510

<Q_STC_A_1611_FO_OLAMBERT> <L_STOCKWE_081> <A_OLIVER_LAMBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_1560?> <R_WILLIAM_WALLOP>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,52>

{ED:SIR_OLIVER_LAMBERT_TO_WILLIAM_WALLOP.}

{ED:SIR_LAMBERT'S_LETTER_TO_HIS_UNCLE,_WILLIAM_WALLOP,_MAYOR,_IS
_SCRIBBLED_ON_THE_BOTTOM_OF_STOCKWELL'S_PETITION.}

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:NEPHEW:1560?:51?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WALLOP:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_081:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My good uncle , by this you may see Thomas Stockwells desier w=ch= hath
induced me to commend the same unto your tender consideration of his
miserable estat . STOCKWE,II,52.081.1511

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:NEPHEW:1560?:51?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WALLOP:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_081:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I am one of his greatest creditors , STOCKWE,II,52.081.1512

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:NEPHEW:1560?:51?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WALLOP:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_081:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and was easly perswaded to attend his better fortunes by yo=r= self and
others , STOCKWE,II,52.081.1513

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:NEPHEW:1560?:51?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WALLOP:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_081:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
so I dowt not by yo=r= good means and the penury of his present estat ,
his other creditors will yeald to necessity and to his liberty ,
whearby he may recover something that now hath nothing
STOCKWE,II,52.081.1514

AUTHOR:OLIVER_LAMBERT:MALE:NEPHEW:1560?:51?
RECIPIENT:WILLIAM_WALLOP:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_081:E2:1611:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
{ED:SIGNED} Ol. Lambert . STOCKWE,II,52.081.1515

<Q_STC_C_1611_T_TSTOCKWELL> <L_STOCKWE_082> <A_THOMAS_STOCKWELL>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_NAMES_UNKNOWN_16>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,52>

{ED:NO._150._1611._STOCKWELL'S_PETITION_TO_THE_MAYOR_ALDERMEN.}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
To the Right Wor=l= M=r= Maior and the Aldermen his Brethren .
STOCKWE,II,52.082.1516

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
Right Woo=l= : my p'nte poore estate forceth mee to beecome an humble
Petitioner unto yo=w= , that yo=w= will vouchsafe in yo=r= accustomed
clemencies to call before yo=w= those creditors w=ch= w=th=out any
benefitt to themselfes , doe impoze theis heapes of trouble upon mee :
STOCKWE,II,52.082.1517

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
Iyf they would in conscience but way my poore estate and consider the
imposibillity of meanes w=ch= I shall have to make them satisfaction by
abridgment of my <P_II,53> liberty , I doubt not but they would rather
grant mee the latter then in obdurity of hartes cloge mee w=th= the
other : STOCKWE,II,53.082.1518

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
And seeing it hath pleased the Lord to put yo=r= woo'ps in place of
authority , in some cases to command <paren> though I confesse in this
yo=w= $can $not {TEXT:cannot} </paren> and in others by yo=r= good
discretions to perswade <paren> as herein I hope yo=w= may </paren> I
doe <paren> as yo=r= poore petitioner </paren> most humbly craue at
yo=r= handes soe much favour , as by calling my creditors before yo=w=
, to lett them knowe , by yo=r= discreete perswations , my imbesillity
of estate , great charge of ffamely , and willing mynd I have by my
endevours <paren> yf they will grant me liberty </paren> to make them
satisfaction ; w=ch= by imprizonment I shall never be able to
accomplish : In performing of w=ch= soe charatable an act , yo=w= shall
doe a deede meritorious to god , laudable to the world ; and bynd me
and myne to pray for yo=r= long preserva=n= of health and encrease of
woo'ps and hapines STOCKWE,II,53.082.1519

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
yo=r= woo'ps poore Petitioner Thomas Stockwell . STOCKWE,II,53.082.1520

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
my creditors . STOCKWE,II,53.082.1521

AUTHOR:THOMAS_STOCKWELL:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:NAMES_UNKNOWN_16:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:STOCKWE_082:E2:1611:COPY:OTHER
m=r= Toldervey , m=r= Nevy , m=r= mayior , m=r= Linch , m=r= Caplyn
groc. , m=r= Suffeild , John kinge , willm Horne , m=r= gallopp , Tho:
Smyth , Richard Tyller , Tho: perry . STOCKWE,II,53.082.1522

<Q_STC_D_1610?_FO_WHUMBER> <L_STOCKWE_083> <A_WILLIAM_HUMBER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_ANTHONY_SMITH_SR>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_II,55>

{ED:NO._UNDATED._WILLIAM_HUMBER_TO_ANTHONY_SMITH,_SENIOR,_OF_CODFO RD.}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Cosin Smyth , W=th= hartie comendacons to yo=u= and all my good
friendes generally , I wish yo=u= all happiness as to my selfe .
STOCKWE,II,55.083.1523

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
These fewe wordes are to advertise yo=u= that there is a neighboure of
myne of whome my cosin Anthonie yo=r= sonne hired a mare to come over
to yo=u= before Christmas last , w=ch= mare by over ryding , over
burdening & yll usage in the same iourney did dye , to the great
hinderaunce & losse of the poore man that lett here out , by lacking
the use of her all this tyme , STOCKWE,II,55.083.1524

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and he meanes to seek a remedy by Lawe , either-1 against yo=r= sonne
or my cosin Stockewell , whoe then as the owner sayth did passe his
word for her : STOCKWE,II,55.083.1525

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
therefore I hold it good yo=u= should come over yo=r=selfe and take
some order w=th= him , STOCKWE,II,55.083.1526

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and I dare p=r=sume to bringe him to a very reasonable agreement ,
STOCKWE,II,55.083.1527

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and at yo=r= comyng w=ch= yo=r= leasure will best serve these holidayes
I thinke you shall understand of many other thinges which I will not
nowe cease to write of . STOCKWE,II,55.083.1528

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_HUMBER:MALE:KIN:_:_?
RECIPIENT:ANTHONY_SMITH_SR:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:STOCKWE_083:E2:1610?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And so in hast I rest yo=r= poore kinsman and friend {ED:SIGNED}
William Humber . STOCKWE,II,55.083.1529
