<B_WILLOUG>

{COM:THE_FOOTNOTES_FOR_DELETED_WORDS_HAVE_BEEN_REPLACED_[FOR_T
ECHNICAL_REASONS]_WITH_{TEXT:word_DELETED}.}

<Q_WIL_A_1520S?_FO_JZOUCHE> <L_WILLOUG_001> <A_JANE_ZOUCHE>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_16>

{ED:NO._2._JANE_ZOUCHE}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the Right Wurshipfull Sir Edward Wylloughby Knyght at Henley in
Ardren . WILLOUG,16.001.1

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Right wurshipfull Sir , I commaund me to youe WILLOUG,16.001.2

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and according to my promes have wrytton to my broder in the best maner
{in}_P I can for my Master your ffader , WILLOUG,16.001.3

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
but of trouth yf I had sene his lettre before I hade made youe that
promes I wolde not have be to hasty , WILLOUG,16.001.4

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for Sir , I am to olde to be fered with suche lettres or for ony olde
rakenynges on my behalffe . WILLOUG,16.001.5

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I noder fere hym nor no man elles that can lay ony thyng to my charge
oder wyse then ought to be in a religious woman , WILLOUG,16.001.6

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and so I desire youe to shew unto hym at your pleasir . Albeit that
promise that I made to youe to wryte to my broder , I do assure youe I
have done it in as affectuall maner as {in}_P I can , WILLOUG,16.001.7

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and therfor lett your fader wryte and send hym a lovyng letre by som
wyse servaunt of his that is no facer nor crakker WILLOUG,16.001.8

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and I trust he shall obteyn his desires with good maner , wherof I
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} verey glade as knowith <P_17> our Lorde who
ever send you good fortunes with honour . WILLOUG,17.001.9

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrytton at Markeyate by youris , Dame Jane Zowche priores ther ,
WILLOUG,17.001.10

AUTHOR:JANE_ZOUCHE:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_001:E1:1520S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
the xxj=th= daye of Maye . WILLOUG,17.001.11

<Q_WIL_A_1520S_FO_EFITTON> <L_WILLOUG_002> <A_EDWARD_FITTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_17>

{ED:NO._3._EDWARD_FITTON}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my ryght worshipfull uncle Sir Edward Wylloghby $deliver .
WILLOUG,17.002.12

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght wyrshipfull $uncle in my most lovynge manr' I commende me to you
WILLOUG,17.002.13

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and evun so thanke you for all your kyndenes and paynes takun for me
and my cawses , WILLOUG,17.002.14

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and weer hyt hathe playsyd you to be so gid uncle to me of late as to
be a meane unto my lorde of Canturburye towchynge a byll of
supplycacyon the wyche my servande thys berer by your cowncell hathe
exhybytyd unto my sayd lordis grace the recoverye werof I have finale
comforde in . Althyfe I have as gid ryght therunto as any mon lyvynge
hathe to the most perfyte gid he hathe , uneles hyt be by your gid
helpe and meane werunto I most ryght hertely desir you to take forther
paynes , and for syche $promyse as my sayd servande hathe made to you I
ame ryght well content he shall performe the same . WILLOUG,17.002.15

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir , I am informyd your purpose ys , God wyllynge , to be thys somer
at Wollertun with my uncle Sir John , at wyche tyme I trust you wyll
take the <P_18> payne to see your nece with her lytull babes , the
wyche wyll be myche to my comforde if hyt playse you so to do , as the
Holy Gost $knowythe wo sende you as well to fitr' {ED:?} as <em> I
wolde </em> my selfe . WILLOUG,18.002.16

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
At Gauewerthe th ... day of June , Your lovynge $nephew , Edward Fyton
. WILLOUG,18.002.17

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir , I pray you goo thro ..._X in this mater at this tyme
WILLOUG,18.002.18

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and watt you and my servande Wyllm. Wade shall do towchynge my sutes to
my lorde of Canturburye I am content to stande to . WILLOUG,18.002.19

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_002:E1:1520S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Edward Fyton . WILLOUG,18.002.20

<Q_WIL_A_1530S_T_WWYBE> <L_WILLOUG_003> <A_W_WYBE> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_18>

{ED:NO._4._W._WYBE}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Unto Sir Edward Wylloghby {TEXT:thys_DELETED} knyght thys be delyvrd .
WILLOUG,18.003.21

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master , in my most hartyast maner my dwty rememberd , I hawe me umly
recomhendyd unto yow . WILLOUG,18.003.22

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , the cawsse of my vrytyng unto you ys to inform yow that my lady
dothe breke up howsse at mydsomer and wyll no <P_19> more haw my master
yowr sonne nor my lady hys wyffe , wherfor that thay be not unprowydyd
I hawe wrytyn unto yow that yow may make sume provycyon for theme ,
WILLOUG,19.003.23

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I see yt ys no nother remedy , werfor yf yt myght plesse yow to
take some way with my master yowr brother that sche myght be with hym
and he at the Inys of Cortt or in the kingis serwys , to my pour mynd
hyt wer a good way , WILLOUG,19.003.24

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for now my thynkes yt ys a good sessun to labor for the kyngis serwys
not withstandyng yowr knoleg and persewranc' in that is better and myne
. WILLOUG,19.003.25

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , I beseche yow to make some provycyon schortly and send me some
word in vrytyng for the essment of the hartt of my lady yowr doghter
wych wyll thynke long to know wher sche schall be bestoyd whom ewer mor
pouttes hyr trust and confydenc' in yow . WILLOUG,19.003.26

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Wryt' in Tyltay by the hand of yowr trust serwantt and prest , Sir W.
Wybe . WILLOUG,19.003.27

AUTHOR:W_WYBE:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_003:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
For lake of papir I am dryvvon to bereviat my mater . WILLOUG,19.003.28

<Q_WIL_A_1532?_FN_RWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_004> <A_ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FUTURE_HUSBAND> <A-DOB_--->
<R_DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY> <R-GENDER_FEMALE> <R-REL_FUTURE_WIFE>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_19>

{ED:NO._5._ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To his wellbelovyd Mystres Dorethe Wyllebe . WILLOUG,19.004.29

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Mystres Dorethe , in my $most lovyngyst wise that {in}_P I can I have
me hartely commendyd unto you , trusting in God that you ar in good
helth , <P_20> thankyng you alweys for the great chere that you mad me
at Woodland . WILLOUG,20.004.30

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
It is soo that sins my cummyng hom my father hath movyd me of dyvers
questions as towching the love that schuld be betwen us too ,
WILLOUG,20.004.31

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and I have mad hym reasonable awnswers . WILLOUG,20.004.32

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Howbeit , I can not perceve that he wyll goo other forwerd or bakeward
with that as it {ED:WORD_MISSING?} untill such tyme as he may speke
with Master Wyllybe your father or els have a letter from him ,
WILLOUG,20.004.33

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and theruppon I desire you especially that you will call uppon Master
Wyllybe that he send a letter next terme to my father of his mynd .
WILLOUG,20.004.34

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also Mystres Dorethe , I desir you to remember such thinges as I spake
to you of . WILLOUG,20.004.35

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I promysse you ther is nothing in the world that grevyth me mor at this
tyme then the absence of you , WILLOUG,20.004.36

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for I schall not be at my hartis ease untill such tyme as I see you
agen , as knoweth God who have you in his eternall keping .
WILLOUG,20.004.37

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytte in haste on Saint Nicolas Eyvn . WILLOUG,20.004.38

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your true lover to his powr Robert Wyllughby . WILLOUG,20.004.39

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:FUTURE_HUSBAND:_:_?
RECIPIENT:DOROTHY_WILLOUGHBY:FEMALE:FUTURE_WIFE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_004:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I send you a pair of glovys by Edward Mottley . WILLOUG,20.004.40

<Q_WIL_A_1532?_FO_RWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_005> <A_ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_SON-IN-LAW> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_FATHER-IN-LAW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_20>

{ED:NO._6._ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To his ryght wurschipfull good Master Sir Edward Wyllybe knyght be this
$delivered . WILLOUG,20.005.41

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght whurschipfull Sir , my dewty rememberyd I have me commendid unto
you , very glad to here tell that your masterschipp is in good helth ,
as one that is very sory to here that my father $and you can not agree
by no meanys . WILLOUG,20.005.42

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Also Sir , I myself do perceve $thatt he hath no mynd as yet to medyll
with you . WILLOUG,20.005.43

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
As for as I do $understond my father laboryd <P_21> to have a mariage
mad betwene one of $my Lord of Dudlys dowghters and me . How he spedith
in that $matter {ED:?} I can not surly assertefye you , desiring you
that it my go .. forder . WILLOUG,21.005.44

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your masterschip dyd ons move me if I durst be bold to be maryd
secretly at home with you if ye be so pleasid . WILLOUG,21.005.45

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
$I am ryght well content to be orderd by you , as schortly as I may
gett to London , WILLOUG,21.005.46

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
for I am compellyd sumwhat to adventur WILLOUG,21.005.47

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
or els I schall never be at my hartis ease , requiryng your
masterschipp to be good unto me in this matter as knowith God who have
you in his kepyng . WILLOUG,21.005.48

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Scriblid in hast . WILLOUG,21.005.49

AUTHOR:ROBERT_WILLOUGHBY_2:MALE:SON_IN_LAW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:FATHER_IN_LAW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_005:E1:1532?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Yours at all requestes Robert Wyllughby . WILLOUG,21.005.50

<Q_WIL_D_1538_FO_CBRANDON> <L_WILLOUG_006> <A_CHARLES_BRANDON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1484> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_23>

{ED:NO._8._CHARLES_BRANDON,_DUKE_OF_SUFFOLK}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
To the worsshipfull Sir Edwarde Willoughbye knight . WILLOUG,23.006.51

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
After right herty commendacions you shal understande I have appointide
to your survey in myn office of the Riding fostership of the new
forrest the Baylywike of Burley , Friteham , Godshill , Lindwodde and
the Estbaylywike and no further with half the ffee to that office , and
the profites growing in the seid bayliwikes reservyng to myn olde
servaunt Richarde Lorde all that I have appointid unto him , hertely
praying you substauncyally to use the office in theise walkes and no
further , as the kingis grace may be well servede for my discharge and
for thencreace of your thankes which dout ye not ye shal not lak
according to your desertes . WILLOUG,23.006.52

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And this to be observede in your bihalf as ye entende to have our
favours and the contynuaunce of the use and exercising of this office .
WILLOUG,23.006.53

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
At London the xiij=th= day of Februory anno xxix=no= R. H. viii ,
Charly Suffolk . WILLOUG,23.006.54

<P_24>

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Albeit the moytie of my fee be herin grauntid unto you ye {TEXT:ye}
{ED:SIC} know well it most be payed to Edwarde Fetiplace esquier by
agreement and order takyn in that bihalf . WILLOUG,24.006.55

AUTHOR:CHARLES_BRANDON:MALE:KIN:1484:54
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_006:E1:1538:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
The Duke of Suffolke . WILLOUG,24.006.56

<Q_WIL_D_1530S_T_WFITZALAN> <L_WILLOUG_007> <A_WILLIAM_FITZALAN>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1476> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_24>

{ED:NO._9._WILLIAM_FITZALAN,_EARL_OF_ARUNDEL}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Too Syr Edward Willughby knyght this be yoven . WILLOUG,24.007.57

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Sir Edward Willughby <em> I commend </em> me unto you , adverteynyng
you that I have receyvid <em> your lettre </em> the xxviijth day of
this present monyth dated the s ... day of the same , and do right well
perceve the $purporse therof . WILLOUG,24.007.58

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And as touchyng your inhabiting within the lodge of Goddishill I
perceve by your seid lettre , for asmyche as ye be ridyng forster in
the New fforest undyr the Duke of Suffolke , ye say that you may
lawfully take your eaise in ony lodge within the seid forest .
WILLOUG,24.007.59

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
It hath not byn seyn hythirto before ye enterprised thare , that ony
Rydyng forster or his deputie did dwell within ony lodge within the
seid fforest . WILLOUG,24.007.60

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And in case ye may lawfully so do , I am right well contented ,
WILLOUG,24.007.61

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
or elles I trust ye will advoyde your dwellyng thare accordyng to my
lettre I sent you of late . WILLOUG,24.007.62

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And where ye wrete in your seid lettre ye wold have complayned to the
Kyngis Councell upon Vyncent Jomper before this tyme for the wastes and
distruccions that hath made in the kingis woddes and game , if it
<P_25> were not for feare that his offences shuld torne me to
displeasure , Sir , feare ye not WILLOUG,25.007.63

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
but complayne uppon hym and upon all othyr kepers within the seid
fforest if they do offend in makyng wast of the kyngis wooddes or game
. WILLOUG,25.007.64

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
When ye se your tyme , forbeare non of them for feare of ony
displeasure that ye thynke it shall torne unto me . WILLOUG,25.007.65

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Over this as ye resite in your seid lettre that my Councell shuld
promise in my behalff to Sir Anthony Willughby when he solde me the
howse at Lamheth , that he shuld have the Office of Goddishill for
terme of his liffe , I assure you what som ever promise my seid
councell made unto hym in that behalff , thei did it without ony
warraunt or auctoryte gyvyn be me , WILLOUG,25.007.66

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
that will I well prove . WILLOUG,25.007.67

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And so fare you well . WILLOUG,25.007.68

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
At Downeley the last day of September . WILLOUG,25.007.69

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZALAN:MALE:_:1476:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_007:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:OTHER
Your lover Arundel . WILLOUG,25.007.70

<Q_WIL_A_1530S_T_JTEWKSBURY> <L_WILLOUG_008> <A_JOHN_OF_TEWKESBURY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_26>

{ED:NO._10._JOHN,_ABBOT_OF_TEWKESBURY}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_OF_TEWKESBURY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_008:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the rygth worschypfull Sir Eadward Wylowgthbe knygth thes be
delyverd . WILLOUG,26.008.71

AUTHOR:JOHN_OF_TEWKESBURY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_008:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Rygth worschypfull and my lovyng frynde in my most harte wyse I commend
me to yowe evyn soo thankyng yowe for yowre contynuall goodnes schowyd
to my prior and pore howese of Cranburne , and to all my tenentes , and
for the excersyse of my lyberte in my purluse desyryng yowe of
contynuance , and that my prior and my pore tenentes ther may have
yowre lovyng yeade in all ther lawfull pursutes WILLOUG,26.008.72

AUTHOR:JOHN_OF_TEWKESBURY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_008:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and yf ther be any thyng in the whyche I may do yowe plesure to
recompenc' parte of yowre goodnes ye may be sure therof with my
prayowres as knowyth owre savyowre whoo send yowe longe lyffe with
incress of muche worschyp . WILLOUG,26.008.73

AUTHOR:JOHN_OF_TEWKESBURY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_008:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Forthamton the xix day of August by hym that ys all yowres . John
Abbatt of Teoxbery . WILLOUG,26.008.74

<Q_WIL_A_1530?_FO_AFITZHERBERT> <L_WILLOUG_009> <A_ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_UNCLE> <A-DOB_1470> <R_ROLAND_BABYNGTON>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_NEPHEW> <R-DOB_--->

<P_39>

{ED:NO._20._SIR_ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT}

{COM:TO_ROLAND_BABYNGTON}

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To hys Ryght Welbeloved Cosyn Roulond Babyngton esquire be this bill
delyvered . WILLOUG,39.009.75

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght welbeloved cosyn , I recommend me unto you and to my cosyn your
wyfth {ED:?} WILLOUG,39.009.76

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and hertely thanke you ffor my gud cher at my last beyng with you .
WILLOUG,39.009.77

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Accordyng to your letter I have moved Sir Edward Willughby ffor the
mater bytwyx you , WILLOUG,39.009.78

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and he affermeth surely unto me that ffor non <P_40> paimant off your
money to hym as you shuld have doon by your bargayn he hath susteyned C
merces looss by shyfftys that he mad to paie oder hys creditorz and
with unoth {ED:?} guft as he ys now content that he wyl warrent you the
lond ayenst all men and that the tenaunt shall knowleg beffor a Juge
hys ryght accordyng to your covenauntes , and that doon , that you
therupon make paimant to hym as the covenaunt purporteth and
specyffieth , WILLOUG,40.009.79

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and now hyt ys broght to this gud poynt I pray you endevour {ED:?} your
selff to perffourme and kepe the same without delaie .
WILLOUG,40.009.80

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
I wold be sory to see ony snyth or unkyndeness to be stirred or moved
betwyx you , WILLOUG,40.009.81

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and thus our Lord make you strong WILLOUG,40.009.82

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and send you remydie of your disease . WILLOUG,40.009.83

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrytyn this Sonday after the ffest off $purifficacion off our blessed
Lady . WILLOUG,40.009.84

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your Uncle , Antony Fitzherbert . WILLOUG,40.009.85

AUTHOR:ANTHONY_FITZHERBERT:MALE:UNCLE:1470:60?
RECIPIENT:ROLAND_BABYNGTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_009:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Agreed by me Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,40.009.86

<Q_WIL_A_1529_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_010> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_40>

{ED:NO._21._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_010:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To hys Wurshypffull brodr' Sir John Wyllughby knygth thys letter be
delyveryed yn hast . WILLOUG,40.010.87

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_010:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wurschypfull brother after herty commendacion , so it is that my nephew
Fyton hathes send unto yow the rentall of all Harbotellis landes and
sayth that he is bounden to suffer you to receve zerly xlli. out of
Harbotellis landes and not to pay you xlli. by zer . Wherfor he
desireth <P_41> you to assigne your selfe out of the holl landes the
said sum of xlli. and to receve it apon the landes accordyng to hys
bonde for hys discharge , and also desireth you that you afor our Lady
day next wyll assigne landes to the said value of xlli. and to acertene
hym wyche landes they be and wher they lye that ze wyll have , to the
entent that he may receve the reste of the landes above xlli. , wyche
mater I do remytte to your discresion with advys of your lerned
cousaill . WILLOUG,41.010.88

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_010:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also he sayth that the said landes of xlli. $shall $be {TEXT:chalbe}
discharged of all reparacions and of all fees granted to any person by
my said nephew or by any other afor' thys day . WILLOUG,41.010.89

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_010:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our Lord kepe you . WILLOUG,41.010.90

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_010:E1:1529:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
At Gosworth the xiiijth {TEXT:xx_DELETED} day of Januarii , by your
lovyng brother Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,41.010.91

{TEXT:Fyton_DELETED}

<Q_WIL_A_1530?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_011> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_41>

{ED:NO._22._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To hys wurschypfull brother Sir John Wyllughby knyght .
WILLOUG,41.011.92

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , the tenant of Radforth mylne sayth that when he dothes aske of
yow tymber for the mylne that then ze do answer to hym and say that the
land is myn and that I schall fynd hym tymber . WILLOUG,41.011.93

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , ye do well kno that I have ther nother land nor zet no tymber but
a rent of my fathers gyfte {TEXT:and_no_land_DELETED} out of the land .
WILLOUG,41.011.94

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my father dud alowe tymber for all milnes and houses in Notes upon
all the wholl lande all the days of his lyfe . WILLOUG,41.011.95

<P_42>

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also Sir , the prior and the tenantes of Lenton do debarre the tenant
of Radford to have {TEXT:be_DELETED} thre bestes goyng in Lenton wyche
{TEXT:af_DELETED} the tenant ever hathes had goyng afortyme , and every
other tenant on after an other . WILLOUG,42.011.96

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , ze may lose your inheritance and the ryght therof in your tyme if
ze be so mynded WILLOUG,42.011.97

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
for ye do well knowe that I do dwell to far thens to defend it .
WILLOUG,42.011.98

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And my father dud defend it in hys tyme when I was present and dud
dwell wythe hym wythout any charge to me . WILLOUG,42.011.99

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our Lord kepe yow in helthe , WILLOUG,42.011.100

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_011:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
fro Henley by your lovyng brother , Edward Wyllughby .
WILLOUG,42.011.101

<Q_WIL_C_1532_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_012> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_42>

{ED:NO._23._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my Right Worshipfull broder Syr John Willoughby knyght this be
delyvered . WILLOUG,42.012.102

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , plesith you to understande the Commissioners betwene you and
Strilley Syr Richord Sacheverall , The Abbot of Welbeck , Syr William
Perpoynt and <P_43> Syr John Dunham , to examyn wytnes uppon the
articles that you were examyned of your selffe only and not ffor non
other articles of hys demaunde nor for the draynyng of the water , at
whiche tyme you most bryng proves before the Commissioners that you
broght no riotus persons at your huntyng in Lowdeham woddes bot that my
lady Smythe and hur Cumpeny dyd kyll the ij dere them selffe with theyr
groundes and that the on' dere wos send unto you by Master Strilley and
delyvered by Syr John Byron servaunt , WILLOUG,43.012.103

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and also you most prove by wytnes that Henry Marmyon and other your
servauntes went to eyde the baylle to serve the capias by the sheriff
desyre and commaundement . WILLOUG,43.012.104

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also you most not procede with your niseprice ffor a tyme
WILLOUG,43.012.105

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ther is an iniunccion decrede that it shall remayne ffor this tyme .
WILLOUG,43.012.106

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also my lorde Lennerd schewde me that Master Strilley wolde be content
to put all maner of maters in tretyng and not to demaunde no way throgh
youre grounde nor the draynyng of his water , bot all other maters to
be agrede uppon and to leve his furst demaunde whiche I have undertakyn
in your behalff if you be plesed so that my lord Lennerd , Syr Edward
Ferrers or Master Wygston be ij of them . WILLOUG,43.012.107

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Syr , I trust my broder Hugh mater shall take anende by arbitrament
wherof I will send you knolege as schortly as I can ,
WILLOUG,43.012.108

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also Syr , for the mater <P_44> that I made my request of unto you
agaynes Ester , I trust you will fulfill my desyre WILLOUG,44.012.109

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
or elles you set noght by me WILLOUG,44.012.110

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nor are not so lovyng abroder unto me WILLOUG,44.012.111

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I trust in you . WILLOUG,44.012.112

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so Jhesus kepe you . WILLOUG,44.012.113

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_012:E1:1532:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytton in hast uppon Askewennesday , by your luffyng brother Ed.
Wyllughby . WILLOUG,44.012.114

<Q_WIL_A_1530?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_013> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_44>

{ED:NO._24._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To hys wurschypful brother Sir John Wyllughby knyght so it delyvered .
WILLOUG,44.013.115

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wurschypfull brother , wheras for convenient causes and for the
preferment of your heyr and myn herafter to the advancement of our blod
and name , I am sore indeted to divers persons to the sum of a m merkes
acordyng to a byll therof of parcels to whom I was indeted wyche I left
wythe John Lyvesey , Sir , if it plaise you to consider my grete nede
and the cause therof and to ayde me at any tyme or tymes other thys
yer' or the next zer or any zer , wherof parte I wold have thys zer
toward the redressyng of my dette and the aysyng therof . Therof I
hertely desire you , WILLOUG,44.013.116

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and then I wold thynke that ze be kynd and naturall brother to me and
naturall father to my son and your heyr . WILLOUG,44.013.117

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And what is your plaisor to helpe me other now or any tyme herafter I
instantly pray you to acertene me therof by your wrytyng by the next
that commeth over to me from you wyche I do thynke is other <P_45> my
brother Hugh or els Gwylbert my servant . WILLOUG,45.013.118

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , I can not pay all my dettes to suche penons as I have borowed of
, WILLOUG,45.013.119

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
nother thys zer nor the next zer' , WILLOUG,45.013.120

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but I entend fint nowe to pay Master Whyte of Pooll iij=c= merkes this
zer , and after to pay other creditors in as schorte tyme as God and my
frendes wyl strengthen me therto . WILLOUG,45.013.121

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our Lord kepe you in wurschyp to your hertis ayse .
WILLOUG,45.013.122

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_013:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at Wudland the fryday afor' midsomer day by your lovyng brother
Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,45.013.123

<Q_WIL_C_1530?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_014> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_45>

{ED:NO._25._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Too my Right Wurshipfull Brother Sir John Wyllughby knyght this be
delyvered . WILLOUG,45.014.124

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right wurshipfull Sir , in my moste hertie maner I commend me unto you
. WILLOUG,45.014.125

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And where as my cosyn Symond Catesby haith bene wyth me in Dorsettshire
trustyng too have had money of me , Sir , it is soo that at this tyme I
ame un purveyd of money and $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} tyll I have me
Rentes at Mychelmes and tyll I receve money of Master Rowland Babyngton
wiche is cc merkes wiche Master Fetzharbert hait promysed me too see me
payd at Mychelmes next . <P_46> Wherefore Sir , I hertely desire you
too forbere and too gyffe respect unto the sayd Symond Catesby for
caullyng or demaundyng by you of hym any money untyll Alhalowtide at
wiche tyme I wyll not fayll but too pay hym all suche dette as I doo
owe hym , trustyng that at this my request you $will $not
{TEXT:wyllnot} caulle of hym soo hastely as he shewyth me you doo
before the sayd tyme of Halhalowtide . WILLOUG,46.014.126

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And thus our Lord preserve you in wurshipe and helth too your hertis
eyse . WILLOUG,46.014.127

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytten at Wodland the thryd of this moneth of July ,
WILLOUG,46.014.128

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_014:E1:1530?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your lovyng brother Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,46.014.129

<Q_WIL_C_1530S?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_015> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_46>

{ED:NO._26._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Too the wurshipffull and his hertie belovyd {TEXT:cosyn_DELETED}
brother Sir John Wyllughby knyght this be delyvered .
WILLOUG,46.015.130

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wurshipffull Sir , in my moste lovyng maner that {in}_P I cane I
hertely {TEXT:comen_DELETED} recommende me too you beyng very glade too
here of your good helth . WILLOUG,46.015.131

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
This is too desire you too be soo good brother too me as too lende me
xlli. too send it me other by this berer or too London by Sir Robert
this next terme , and cause ane obligacion too be made me too repay you
the same xlli. at suche days as you shall appoynt , parte therof to be
repayd by your <P_47> owen handes , and the reste too be paid by John
Laceter owt of my landes and leyffynges ther in thos parties .
WILLOUG,47.015.132

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And in this thyng I pray you too have consideracion and too tender me
in this my nede wiche , God wyllyng , $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} nothing
too your losse {TEXT:and_DELETED} nor hynderance as knowith our Lorde
who kepe you in wurshipe . WILLOUG,47.015.133

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytten the x th day of Auguste in haste . WILLOUG,47.015.134

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_015:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your luffyng brother Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,47.015.135

<Q_WIL_C_1530S?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_016> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_47>

{ED:NO._27._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Too the Right Wurshippfull and his lovyng Brother Sir John Wyllughby
knyght . WILLOUG,47.016.136

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Right Wurshipffull Brother , after right hertye commendacion this is
too assertayne you that ffor great consideracions and nede I muste
desire you without any deney too lende me xlli. whereof the one halffe
I wyll repay you at Ester and the other halffe at Michelmes ,
WILLOUG,47.016.137

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and yf I doo fayll {TEXT:then_DELETED} you of your days of payment then
never too truste me nor too doo for me as your brother .
WILLOUG,47.016.138

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And yf you dyd know what nede I had or for whate cause I do it ffore ,
I doubt not but that you wolde helpe me with as moche money as {with}_P
you culd . WILLOUG,47.016.139

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And parte of my cause is be cause I muste pay ffyfty poundes ffor
<P_48> my brother Hugh too Master Hollys besyd other great nede and
causys that I have . WILLOUG,48.016.140

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , I have send here my obligacion ffor the sure payment of your
money that you lende me at my days appoynted wiche I wyll not ffayll
God wyllyng too kepe assuredly yf I be leyffyng , and yf not my
executors shall . WILLOUG,48.016.141

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therfore I pray you too doo ffor me as my truste is in you and as my
lovyng brother . WILLOUG,48.016.142

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Thus our Lorde kepe you in wurshipe and helth long too contynew .
WILLOUG,48.016.143

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Scribled in haste at London the xxij=ie= day of October .
WILLOUG,48.016.144

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your luffyng brother Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,48.016.145

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
I pray $you {TEXT:tou} {COM:SIC?} to delyver the money to my servant
this berer WILLOUG,48.016.146

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_016:E1:1530S?:COPY:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and he schall delyver you my obigacion . WILLOUG,48.016.147

<Q_WIL_A_1530S_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_017> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_48>

{ED:NO._28._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
To my wurschypfull brother Sir John Wyllughby knyght so it delyvered .
WILLOUG,48.017.148

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wurschypfull Sir , after herty commendacion I do desire you to be good
brother unto me and to ponder and to consider the grete payment of
viij=c= merkes that I most pay now in hand this terme for redempcion of
the best manor that I have by my wyfe called Wambroke wyth advoyson of
the churche ther . WILLOUG,48.017.149

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And also I pray you to consider that notwythstondyng I had entended to
have sold my manor of Stondon wyth the landes ther to Master <P_49>
Chamley the sergeante , now at the requeste of my lady merques late
made to me , I do nother-1 sell thos landes in Stondon nor non other
landes , but I trust in God to save all my landes in every place
wythout any sale by the helpe of my lady merques and of other my
frendes and tenantes that have promised me ayde and helpe nowe at my
nede . WILLOUG,49.017.150

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And me thynketh that I schold of reason most assuredly trust of you to
have helpe at this my nede rather then of any other . Wherfor Sir , I
pray you wythe out delay to send me by this berer John Leycetor my
servant xl merkes that is behynd to me unpayd of my lyfyng gyfen to me
by my father for two zers ended at Myghelmes last passed that is every
zer xx merkes , for I can forbere it nolonger but that I most nedes now
have it . WILLOUG,49.017.151

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also I had never so grete nede therof as I have at this tyme , as knoes
our Lord who kepe you in wurschyp {TEXT:to_DELETED} and helthe to your
hertis ayse . WILLOUG,49.017.152

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wryten at London the Thursday after alhalowsday . by your luffyng
brother Edward Wyllughby . WILLOUG,49.017.153

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Sir , if ze can not forbere no longer the xli. that I promised to you
to pay <P_50> for my cosin parson Thurland , then {TEXT:pra_DELETED} I
am contented that ze do pay your selfe the said xli. parcell of the
said xl merkes . WILLOUG,50.017.154

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_017:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And so remayneth to me xvjli. xiijs. iiijd . WILLOUG,50.017.155

<Q_WIL_A_1529?_FO_EFITTON> <L_WILLOUG_018> <A_EDWARD_FITTON>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_50>

{ED:NO._29._EDWARD_FITTON}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my Ryght Worschypfull uncle Sir John Wyloghby knyght , delyveryd .
WILLOUG,50.018.156

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght worschypfull uncle I $commend me unto you , WILLOUG,50.018.157

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and wher as I am bonden to suffer the executors of <em> my Grandefather
</em> Sir Henry Wyloghby to resayve fyve hunderythe markes of the moety
of the londes late of George Harebotell by forty poundes by the yer
wher in I am contentyd that ye do resayve the londes in Sussex weche
extende to xxviij=ti= pondes by yer , <P_51> and the sutes of courte to
iiij poundes wherof my lorde of Racheforde hathe in feez xls. , Sir ,
Sutton and Gaylye ye knawe welenugh , of the weche Sutton and $Gaylye I
am contentyd ye do resayve at your choyse of the on , of $thaym as
moche as to make hyt the some due to you praying $you to be contentyd
with the same . WILLOUG,51.018.158

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir , I do hertely pray you to lett me be surely acertenyd by your
wrytyng what ys your mynde her in . WILLOUG,51.018.159

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Sir , I am enformed that the exchetor of your chyr claymethe a feez of
Sutton , so that I pray you if ye do resayve the profettes ther of I am
contentyd to alowe al charges resonable in that and all other so that
hyt schall not be no thyng preiudicyall to your payment at the lengthe
. WILLOUG,51.018.160

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus owr Lorde mercyfully have you in hys kepeyng .
WILLOUG,51.018.161

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
At Gawseworthe thys viij=th= day of Januarii . WILLOUG,51.018.162

AUTHOR:EDWARD_FITTON:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_018:E1:1529?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assuryd Neveue , Edward Fyton esquier . WILLOUG,51.018.163

<Q_WIL_D_1529?_FO_TGREY> <L_WILLOUG_019> <A_THOMAS_GREY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_1477> <R_JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_51>

{ED:NO._30._THOMAS_GREY,_MARQUIS_OF_DORSET}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY_AND_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
To my Right Welbeloved Cousins Sir John Willoughby and Sir Edward
Willoughby and to ether of theym . WILLOUG,51.019.164

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Cousin Willoughby , in my right hertie maner I recommend me unto you ,
WILLOUG,51.019.165

<P_52>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and so doo thanke you for my gode chere at my last beyng with you ,
WILLOUG,52.019.166

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and have receyved by my Counceller Holte the Boke that was made betwyne
us consernyng the Covenauntes of Mariage of my doughter and your sonne
, wherin I desired you to have the frist Joyntour that shuld be gyven
to my Doughter Anne of suche landes as you have within the Countie of
Leycestr' whiche ben Cosyngton and Wymsold . Wherfor I pray you still
so to contynewe in the same mynde according to $the appoyntement that
wee were at whiche $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to my greate comforte and
pleasure , as our Lord knoweth who kepe you . WILLOUG,52.019.167

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
From Bradgate the viij=th= day of June . WILLOUG,52.019.168

AUTHOR:THOMAS_GREY:MALE:KIN:1477:52?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_&_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_019:E1:1529?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Youre aswryth frynd Thomas Dorssett . WILLOUG,52.019.169

<Q_WIL_D_1530S_FO_MGREY> <L_WILLOUG_020> <A_MARGARET_GREY>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_52>

{ED:NO._31._MARGARET_GREY,_MARCHIONESS_OF_DORSET.}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
To my hertely belouved Cousyn Sir John Wylloughby knyght be thys
delyveryd . WILLOUG,52.020.170

<P_53>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Good cosyn Wylloughby , I hartely recommend me unto yow , certyfieng
yow that my cosyn Sir Edward Willoughby your brother , John Lyvesey
your servaunt , and I have redd over the indenture between my lord ,
God have his soule , and yow whereby apperyth that I doo clerely owe
yow lxxiijli. vjs viijd . whereof I do send yow at this tyme by your
seyd servaunt xlli . WILLOUG,53.020.171

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And my seyde cosyn your brother hathe of his gentilnes , consyderyng my
greate charges and paymenttes to the kyngis grace and to other ,
promysed to pay yow for me now incontynently xiijli. vjs. viijd. whiche
he wyll lend me for oone yere . WILLOUG,53.020.172

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And as to the other xxli. residue of the seyd somme of lxxiijli. vjs.
viijd. , good cosyn Willoughby , I must hartely desyre yow to be
contented to take xli. thereof at the anuncyacion of our Lady next
commyng , and the other xli. at mychelmas next , at whiche dayes as you
know there shall so muche rest in your handes for the fyndyng of my son
Harry Wylloughby and my doughter his wyffe so as yow shall paye youre
selff . WILLOUG,53.020.173

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Good cosyn Wylloughby , I am verry lothe and sorry to entrete yow to
forbere any parte of youre seyde monney , WILLOUG,53.020.174

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
for I know that yow have charges and many weyes to bestowe the same ,
WILLOUG,53.020.175

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
but of trouth my busynes and dayly paymentes ar so greate and the
credytours so importunate and unresonable redy every day to arreste
suche of my lordis ffrendes and servauntes as wer bounden for hym ,
Allmyghty God have his soule , that I am forced to be bold over you ,
as over one of my especyall and trusty ffrendes at thys tyme for the
forberyng of this xxli. tyll mychelmas next as I have before wrytten ,
trustyng that from hensforth I shall see yow truly contented at every
day of your paymentes specyfied in the seyde indentures ,
WILLOUG,53.020.176

<P_54>

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and thus I do byd yow hartely farewell . WILLOUG,54.020.177

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrytten at London the ix daye of November . WILLOUG,54.020.178

AUTHOR:MARGARET_GREY:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_020:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
your lovyng cossyne Margarett Dorssett . WILLOUG,54.020.179

<Q_WIL_A_1530S_FO_ALFITZHERBERT> <L_WILLOUG_021> <A_ALICE_FITZHERBERT>
<A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_KIN> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_KIN> <R-DOB_--->

<P_56>

{ED:NO._34._ALICE_FITZHERBERT}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To her Ryght Worshypfulle and singler gudmayster Syr John Wyllyghby
knyght thys be dilivered et ct . WILLOUG,56.021.180

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
My duetye remembred et ct. , pleyset that youre gudmaystershype that
you have $lent me and my poore howse the somme of lli. sterlyng money
by thei handes of Syr Robert Peyret dilivered , for the wych I and all
my poore systers be youre dayly bedewemen . WILLOUG,56.021.181

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And for the repayment therof I wolde $be $gladde {TEXT:begladde} to
knowe your pleasure what dayes you wolde gyffe me , WILLOUG,56.021.182

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
and you schall have asufficient baunde by obligacion under oure Covent
seale for the repayment therof . WILLOUG,56.021.183

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Syr , hyt ys soo that Syr Humfrey Ferrers hayth sent unto me divers
tymes nowe of late to have owre tenauntes to doo the kynge service in
hys retenewe , where upon I made them answere <P_57> that your
maystershyppe ys hye steward of oure house and landes , and unto suche
tyme that you had taken youre pleasure hereyn he colde have non .
Wherefor I wolde be gladde to knowe $youre pleasure hereyn as knowes
oure Lorde Jhesu Chryst who have you ever in hys blesset tuicion .
WILLOUG,57.021.184

AUTHOR:ALICE_FITZHERBERT:FEMALE:KIN:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:KIN:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_021:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
At Pollesworthe the xj=th= day of October , by youre dayly bedewoman
Ales Fytzherbert Abbesse there . WILLOUG,57.021.185

<Q_WIL_A_1530?_T_JBARWICK> <L_WILLOUG_022> <A_JOHN_BARWICK>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_57>

{ED:NO._35._JOHN_BARWICK}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull and my singhler good Maister and Patrone Syr
John Willoghbye knyght . WILLOUG,57.022.186

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
In moste humble wyse I $hertely commende me unto you , right glad to
here that your Maistershipp is comen <em> home and </em> be in good
helthe and merye , which I pray God longe to contynue ,
WILLOUG,57.022.187

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
but yett <em> I am </em> sorie that ye were letted so longe by that
chaunce that fortuned in $my house after ye went to Warwickshire .
WILLOUG,57.022.188

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yett insomoche as every thynge $fortunes by and under the permission
and knolege of All myghtie God I hertely rendre unto the same God
thankes and prayses that he hathe hetherto {TEXT:that_he_hathe_DELETED}
holden his hande of his benigenytie and mercye over me , my housholde ,
and all my neghtbures , which was nott alitle affrayed of his scowrge .
WILLOUG,57.022.189

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , I wolde have wayted upon you at your commynge home as my duetie
is that I shulde have done , butt that I am vexede every other day with
myne olde diseas and kepeth my chamber for the most part , which is and
have <P_58> bene the verey lett that I come nott home ,
WILLOUG,58.022.190

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for yff I shulde have come home and fortuned to have bene seyke of my
said longe and olde diseas kepynge my chamber and nott goynge abrode ,
I thynk and suppose that some yll tonges of yll disposede people wolde
have sklandered me and my house agayne , that I had been seyke of the
plagge , and so shulde have been made <paren> nonissimus error peior
priore </paren> , nottwithstandynge <paren> God willynge </paren> I
entende tobe at home before Sonday come sennyght or soner yf it be your
pleasuer that I so do , as knowyth our Lorde who ever have you in his
tuition to his pleasure , and your welthe both-6 of soule and bodye .
WILLOUG,58.022.191

AUTHOR:JOHN_BARWICK:MALE:_:_:_?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_022:E1:1530?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Frome Thurgarton Chauntrye this Saynct Bartholmewe even by your poore
oritour . John Berwyck clerk . WILLOUG,58.022.192

<Q_WIL_A_1530S?_FO_HWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_023> <A_HENRY_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_61>

{ED:NO._38_HENRY_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Un to hys ryght worshypfull owncull Syr John Wyllughby yeve thys .
WILLOUG,61.023.193

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Syr , where as I do persayve that you have sente your servante for the
sturgen that by chawnse wasse taken as thys day att Lowdam wythin youre
lybertes in Trente , my entent wasse in your behawfe for to have sent
stayght from Lowdam the hawlfe feche un to my lorde marges and my lorde
of Huntington , at woosse handes I know you showld have <P_62>
raycayved grett thankes therefore , and forther to a declared un to my
sayde lorde marques that you hade taken apon you for to a bestowed and
dystrybute in the name of my sayde lorde the residu of the same fyche
un to sowche as you dyd thynke moste convenyent wyth in the shyre , for
the whych fyche grayte tankes showld $have $been {TEXT:abyne} gyven
both of the men of worshype un to my lorde and you lykewyse .
WILLOUG,62.023.194

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And in casse thys may stande wyth youre pleasure for to bestowett of
thys sorte I thynke my lorde marques wyll take ytt very frendly .
WILLOUG,62.023.195

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Wrytten att Bowlcott thys present Tewsday . By yours as I ame therto
bownde Henry Wyllughby . WILLOUG,62.023.196

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Syr , I shawle desier you that my servant Wyllam Varnam may be your
mesenger to cary the same yff hytt stande wyth youre pleasure .
WILLOUG,62.023.197

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_023:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Syr , as I supposse ther ys astatute that all sowch fyche of sowch
grayt novelte owght to be presented un to the kyngis maieste yf he were
ny un to the cowntre , notwythe standynge ytt hath bene sene that sowch
fych ware ytt hath byn taken hath byne bestowed by the next noble mane
adioynynge un to the cowntre were ytt hath byne taken .
WILLOUG,62.023.198

<Q_WIL_A_1530S?_FO_HWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_024> <A_HENRY_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_NEPHEW> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_UNCLE> <R-DOB_--->

<P_63>

{ED:NO._39._HENRY_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_024:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To the ryght wurshypfull and my very gud uncle Syr Jhon Willughby this
be delivered . WILLOUG,63.024.199

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_024:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Ryght worshypfull owncull , after dew commendasions un to you hade ,
thys ys to singnyfy un to you that my lord marques harte requeste ys un
to you for to have aswell youre ayde , assistanse and helpe for the
chowsynge of on of the knynghtes of the shyre of Warwyke as of your
kynsfokes and freholders , un to whych office my lorde hath wylled and
appoynted Master Burdett the stewward of hys howsolde . Wher in you
shawle do my lord mowch frendshype and pleasure , whych wyth youre
helpe wyll be the ayselyer browght to passe , for asmowch as Syr George
Throgmarton hath <P_64> yoyned wyth my lord here in .
WILLOUG,64.024.200

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_024:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Syr , my servante shawle afore Crystenmas cowme over to Brodgate att
whych tyme you may convenyently asserten my lorde what you may doo ther
in . WILLOUG,64.024.201

AUTHOR:HENRY_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:NEPHEW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:UNCLE:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_024:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Frome Brodgate the xx=te= of December , by youre poor nephu , Henry
Wyllughby . WILLOUG,64.024.202

<Q_WIL_D_1541_FO_AWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_025>
<A_ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]> <A-GENDER_FEMALE> <A-REL_SISTER-IN-LAW>
<A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER-IN-LAW>
<R-DOB_--->

<P_64>

{ED:NO._40._ANNE_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_025:E1:1541:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Too the Right Wurshippffull and my good brotherinlaw Sir John Willughby
knight , delivered . WILLOUG,64.025.203

AUTHOR:ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_025:E1:1541:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Wurshipffull Brother , after hertie Recommendacions with lyke thankes
ffor the great paynes you toke with me here in my greate trobles ,
desiryng you too know how I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} paid of Joynctor
<paren> according too your ffathers will </paren> , whether it be your
pleasor too take the holle landys and appoynte me xlti merkes yerly too
be payd , orelles that ye will appoynte me suche landys as I shall have
that I may put order in yt ffor my moste proffett . I truste you $will
$be {TEXT:wilbe} good brother too me as I have always ffounde you in
tymes past praying you of answere by this bringer my servant and your
determinat pleasure . WILLOUG,64.025.204

AUTHOR:ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_025:E1:1541:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And all other thinges in thes parties this bringer cane assertayne you
, to whome I pray you gyffe credence . WILLOUG,64.025.205

AUTHOR:ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_025:E1:1541:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Thus moste hertely ffayre you well . WILLOUG,64.025.206

AUTHOR:ANNE_WILLOUGHBY[N.FILOTT]:FEMALE:SISTER_IN_LAW:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER_IN_LAW:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_025:E1:1541:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Scribled at Wodland the viijth day of Auguste . By your loving
susterinlaw Anne Wyllughby . WILLOUG,64.025.207

<Q_WIL_D_1530S?_FO_HGREY> <L_WILLOUG_026> <A_HENRY_GREY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1517> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_65>

{ED:NO._41._HENRY_GREY,_MARQUIS_OF_DORSET}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
To my right hartybeloved cowsyn Syr John Wylloughbye knyght .
WILLOUG,65.026.208

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
$Good Cowsyn Wylloughbye , after my most $harty commendacions , wheare
uppon consyderucion had $for {ED:?} my greate and pestered housholde
within my lytle $lodge of Brodgate , I have thought yt off $necessytye
very expedyent to remove the same thence for the $space of iij wekes or
a monethe , or at the least unto suche tyme as my seyd house maye be
thoroly clensed and made in a perfecte aredynes for my retourne to the
same , beyng as yet unprovyded , where to plante myn abode durynge that
tyme , for that my house at Asteley <paren> as I am enfourmed </paren>
ys in suche sorte of dekaye that no shorte tyme , nor smalle somme of
money , wyll serve to furnyshe the same accordynglye . Thiese $shall
$be {TEXT:shalbe} therfore right hartely to requyer yow good Cowsyn
Wylloughbye to spare me your house at Myddelton for that tyme with
suche furnyture of housholde stuffe as yow have ther
{TEXT:that_DELETED} , whiche , lyke as yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
receyved by byll indented , even so yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
assuredly redelyvered in most thankefull wyse . WILLOUG,65.026.209

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And for suche fewell and pasture as I shall have of yours for my
provysyon ther yow $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} thorowly satysfyed ,
accordynge to suche rememberances as my brother Wylloughbye <P_66> this
brynger can further declare unto yow , to whom yt maye please yow to
geave further credyt in this behalfe , trustynge that yow wyll consyder
and tender my request herein , in suche sorte , as your conformytye
maye declare the same good mynde that I have hetherto conceyved in yow
towards me , whiche I shall thanckefully requyte at any tyme hereafter
as occasyon shall requyer . WILLOUG,66.026.210

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus fare yow as hartely well as I wolde my selfe .
WILLOUG,66.026.211

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
From my seid Lodge at Brodgate the vj=to= daye of Auguste .
WILLOUG,66.026.212

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_026:E1:1530S?:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Your lovyng cousyn Henry Dorssett . WILLOUG,66.026.213

<Q_WIL_D_1530S_FO_HGREY> <L_WILLOUG_027> <A_HENRY_GREY> <A-GENDER_MALE>
<A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1517> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY> <R-GENDER_MALE>
<R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_66>

{ED:NO._42._HENRY_GREY,_MARQUIS_OF_DORSET}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
To my welbelovyd Cosyn Syr John Wyllughbye knyght yeve thes .
WILLOUG,66.027.214

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
After my ryght hartye $commendatyons Good Cosyn Wyllughbye , thes shall
make request unto yow that wher as I understand that my Brother
Wyllughbye is wyllyng to send George your kynsman , a yonge man in my
opinion moche desyrous of learnyng , to some universytye beyonde the
seas ther tarme hym sylfe as well wyth good learnyng as the knoledge of
foran cuntryes : yow wyll , and that the rather at my requeste , helpe
the yonge man in thys hys honeste and godlye travayle wyth some monye
yerlye towardes hys exhybytyon , for the tyme he shall ther tarrye ,
wherunto I truste , <paren> my requeste sett aparte </paren> verye
naturall love and the vertuous desyre <P_67> of the yonge man , wyth
consideratyon had how the habylytye of my brother Wyllughbye wyll not
stretche suffycyentlye wythout your helpe and others to fynd hym ther
wull be a suffycyent spure to prycke yow , besydes that ther can be no
more godlye thynge done than to helpe forwarde those that be studyous .
WILLOUG,67.027.215

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
The some I leave to be apoyntyd by your discretyon , desyryng yow
nevertheles that yt maye be iiij merkes or xls. at the leste ,
WILLOUG,67.027.216

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
and thus wyth thankes yeven for the fresshe sturgyn you sent me , I byd
yow ryght hartylye farewell . WILLOUG,67.027.217

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
From my house at Brodgate the fyrste of Maye . WILLOUG,67.027.218

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_027:E1:1530S:UNKNOWN:FAMILY_OTHER
Your assuryd lovyng Cousyn Henry Dorssett . WILLOUG,67.027.219

<Q_WIL_A_1541_T_HMARMION> <L_WILLOUG_028> <A_HENRY_MARMION>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_FAMILY_SERVANT> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_67>

{ED:NO._43._HENRY_MARMION}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Unto the Ryght Worshypffull and hys synguler good Mayster Syr Jhon
Wylloughby knyght be thys delyveryd wyth spede . WILLOUG,67.028.220

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ryght Worshypffull Syr , accordyng unto my dewtye I humbly recommende
me unto your Maystershyp {TEXT:and_al_DELETED} verye glade to here of
your good healthe whyche I pray God long contynewe to hys pleasur' and
your most comforthe etc . WILLOUG,67.028.221

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Pleasythe your Maystershyp to understonde I have receyvyd your ffeez
for Bevall and Dale of the kyngis Receyvour that-SBJ ys to wytt for
Bevall xiijs. iiijd. whyche was dewe unto your Maystershyp bytwyxt
Ester and Wytsonday last paste as apperyth by the wordes of your patent
. WILLOUG,67.028.222

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also I receyvyd for your leez of Dale xls. for too yeres endyd at
Myghelmas <P_68> laste , WILLOUG,68.028.223

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for that howse of Dale was dyssollvyd the Thurseday next byfor the
feast of All Sayntes was too yeres , and no mor' , WILLOUG,68.028.224

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and all that was dewe at Mygelmas day was too yeres agon the Abbot must
allowe . WILLOUG,68.028.225

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And all other your paymentes bothe-1 for Cossall and your closes at
Beavall byn dyschargyd , Syr , WILLOUG,68.028.226

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
the Awdyter wolde have no les money then xx=te=s. for inrollyng of your
sayd patent and leez whyche Peter Holande ys content to allowe for the
sayd leez . WILLOUG,68.028.227

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , accordyng to your commandement by your letter I was at Derby on
Fryday next after the concepcion of our Ladye to loke for your lyverey
clothes , WILLOUG,68.028.228

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and of truthe I am halff afreyed to bargyn wyth Smythe ,
WILLOUG,68.028.229

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
hys clothes byn so course . WILLOUG,68.028.230

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Nevertheles I have assygned hym to bryng unto Wollaton byfor Crystynmas
iij or iiij peces uppon lykyng when they come thyder .
WILLOUG,68.028.231

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And yf we can not agree then he muste take the sayd clothes by hys
promes , and utter theym at Newearke or wher' he wyll .
WILLOUG,68.028.232

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , by cause I an not skylled in clothe I shall take concell of other
suche as byn my freendes bothe for the goodnes of the clothes and
lykewyse that the colours of theym mey agree one wyth an other as nyghe
as we can . WILLOUG,68.028.233

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , as for all suche money as your Maystershyp commandyd me to
demaunde of certen persons accordyng to theyr especyaltyes , I can
receyve no penye , but liijs. iiijd. of Mayster Pylkyngton ,
WILLOUG,68.028.234

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
nor I thynke <P_69> some of theym wyll never paye wythoute sewte by the
lawe . WILLOUG,69.028.235

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Also Syr , the Receyvour stoppyd for every pounde vjd. of your money ,
and lyke wyse of myne annuytye vjd. at pounde , wherin I made hym
answer that I knewe not whyther yt wer' hys dewtye so to have or no .
WILLOUG,69.028.236

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And he seyd he wolde have so of every man orelles they shulde goo unto
the kyngis Cofferer for theyr paymentes . WILLOUG,69.028.237

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And also he sayd that he was allowed of the sayd Cofferer for every
pounde vjd . WILLOUG,69.028.238

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yet nevertheles I thynke yt ys playne wrong that he shuld have any
penye mor' then for hys quyttaunce makyng of any annuytyes feez or
pencyoners , and that for my parte I wyll inquer ' further cowncell .
WILLOUG,69.028.239

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as for money for your busynes , wyth the helpe of John Levyssey I
shall make shyft for , unto suche tyme as mey speke wyth your
Maystershyp . WILLOUG,69.028.240

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And thus our Lorde preserve your Maystershyp in healthe long to endewre
. WILLOUG,69.028.241

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Scrybled in hast the xj=th= day of Decembr' wyth the rude hand of your
por bedeman and servaunte . WILLOUG,69.028.242

AUTHOR:HENRY_MARMION:MALE:FAMILY_SERVANT:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_028:E1:1541:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Henr' Mermyon . WILLOUG,69.028.243

<Q_WIL_A_1545_T_RPINDER> <L_WILLOUG_029> <A_RALPH_PINDER>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_69>

{ED:NO._44._RALPH_PINDER}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the Right Worshepfull and my synguler good Master Sur John
Willowghby geve this at Woolorton . WILLOUG,69.029.244

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshepfull and my singuler good Master , my dewtey in moist
$humleist $wyse {TEXT:humleistwyse} consyderyd , I moyst lowly have me
commendid unto your Mastershep , trustinge in owre Lorde God that your
Mastershep with all the rest of your ffrendes and ffamyly be mery and
in good helthe , in which estate I shall moist hartely pray unto
Allmyghty God , accordinge <P_70> to my moist bownden dewtey , for the
longe contynuaunse of the same . WILLOUG,70.029.245

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt may please your Mastershep to be advertezid that I dow understande
by a lettre of my brothers , who as yet ys in the northecontre , that
your Mastershep hathe solde unto hym the woll of all your Mastersheps
shepe , which as my brother hathe writon me be in nomber xvij=c= , att
iiijs. viijd. the stonne , to be paid at Ester next ensewinge , at
which tyme your Mastershep $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} well and trewly
paid , God willinge , how be yt at the makinge hereof ,
WILLOUG,70.029.246

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I spake with soche men of Darby , as were wont to by your Mastersheps
woll , who showid me that they in tyms past , have not payd so moche
for yt , and yet have had longe days of payment allso .
WILLOUG,70.029.247

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Neverthelesse yt was and ys to my great comfort to here and perseave
that your Mastershep of your owne bowntyfull goodnes withowght eny
deservinges of owr partes wold wytsafe to put the same in to owr handes
of credyt , nothinge dowtinge but that your Mastershep $will $be
{TEXT:wolbe} as ye have byn hetherto owr chefyste stay and help next
under God , the tyme now drawinge nere that we $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe}
compellid to charge owr ffrendes , your Mastershep beinge the
prinsypall thereof , with helpe of whome we trust in God to leade a
pore honest lyfe thorow , {TEXT:thorow} {ED:SIC} this unserten and
wretchid vale of mysery , WILLOUG,70.029.248

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and whereas we be not able to recompence your Mastersheps goodnes
showid to us and other of owr pore ffrendes , in tymys past as well as
at this present , the Lorde above ys and woll , who suffrythe no good
and charitable acte to passe his handes unrewardyd . WILLOUG,70.029.249

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt may please your Mastershep to wyt that I have sende don' by the
order of Goodman Taylor your Mastersheps servant iiij sarpeclothes redy
mayd of very stronge canvas . WILLOUG,70.029.250

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
The packers here which mayd theym sey they woll hold uppon the poynt of
j=c= ston' a pece , so that I thynke they $will $be {TEXT:wolbe}
suffycyent to hold all your Mastersheps woll beinge well packyd .
WILLOUG,70.029.251

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Yt may please your Mastershep to reseave as a remembrance of my pore
<P_71> hart and good will a barell of ffyne suckad and a boxe of whyt
mermylade desyringe your Mastershep to accept the same in good parte .
WILLOUG,71.029.252

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wyshe yt were no lesse in quantity then yt ys in goodnes .
WILLOUG,71.029.253

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
As to the packinge and weinge of the woll , I thinke my brother hathe
left order how yt $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} don' , or elles synce hys
goinge in to the northe he hathe writton your Mastershep .
WILLOUG,71.029.254

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
When the reckonynge is known how moche money yt dothe amout unto , yt
may please your Mastershep to send ether to Master Revis or to whome
you please , to cawse a bill of det to be maid , WILLOUG,71.029.255

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and I woll in my brothers absence seale yt and subscribe yt .
WILLOUG,71.029.256

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
This don' I woll desyre your Mastershep that we may have yt sende up
when we write for yt WILLOUG,71.029.257

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and thus owr Lorde have your Mastershep in his blessid kepinge .
WILLOUG,71.029.258

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From London the xviij=th= daye of June 1545 , with the hande of your
Mastershepps moyst bowndon bedeman , Rauff Pynder . WILLOUG,71.029.259

AUTHOR:RALPH_PINDER:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_029:E1:1545:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Your Mastershepps barell of suckad and boxe of mermylad' be packyd with
thyn the sarpe clothes as Goodman Taylor knowith . WILLOUG,71.029.260

<Q_WIL_D_1540?_T_WFITZWILLIAM> <L_WILLOUG_030>
<A_WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1> <A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1490?>
<R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY> <R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_75>

{ED:NO._1._WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM,_EARL_OF_SOUTHAMPTON}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
<em> To my rigt </em> worshipful ... loving $friend Sir John Willughby
$knight . WILLOUG,75.030.261

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
After my right hartie commendacion unto you , I have recevyde your
lettres and certifycat of thos twenty wiche ye have preparyde to serve
the kinge our soverayne lorde accordynge to his lettres latelly
addressyde unto you , WILLOUG,75.030.262

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
and therof have advertisyd his highnes , who takithe your endevour
right thankfully . WILLOUG,75.030.263

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And where ye require of me to knowe whidre and when they shall repayre
unto me , of trowth at this present I can not certaynly tel you that .
WILLOUG,75.030.264

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
But this only is for nowe , to let you wit that his pleasure is ye
shall kepe them styll in aredynes , so that upon an howers warninge ,
to be signified unto youe by oodre his letters or myne on his maiestie
his behalfe , they muste wythe all speed convenient repayre unto suche
place as in those lettres $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} than appoyntyde , to
doo suche service for his grace as his highnes requirethe , at whiche
place ye $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} sure immedyatly uppon ther arryvall
there to receave monay bothe-6 for their conduct thidre , and ther
costes , as largely as all oodre doo . WILLOUG,75.030.265

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
And thus hertely ffayre ye well . WILLOUG,75.030.266

AUTHOR:WILLIAM_FITZWILLIAM_1:MALE:_:1490?:50?
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_?
LETTER:WILLOUG_030:E1:1540?:UNKNOWN:OTHER
From Westm. the last of April , Your lovyinge ffellow W. Southampton .
WILLOUG,75.030.267

<Q_WIL_A_1530S?_FO_HGREY> <L_WILLOUG_031> <A_HENRY_GREY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_1517> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_76>

{ED:NO._2._HENRY_GREY,_MARQUIS_OF_DORSET}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
To my right harty $beloved cowsyn Sir John Wylloughbye knyghte .
WILLOUG,76.031.268

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Good Cowsyn Wylloughbye . After my right hartye commendacions , where
as yow knowe that greate sommes of money hathe ben debursed and payde
bothe-1 to yow and others for the mariage money of my syster Anne
Wylloughbye to whom as yow also knowe ther ys assured for hyt in landes
but onely the yerely value of one $hundred $markes whiche for the
debursemente of a thowsand poundes ys small recompence . And albeyt I
dowbte not but that my brother Wylloughbye yf God send hym lyfe , wyll
of his owne good harte and zeale to her , gladly enlarge the same as he
$shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} reasonablye requyred , yet for asmyche as hyt
hathe pleased the kyngis mayestye , at this instante to call hym to
serve in the warres , wherin although I hope {TEXT:ye} {COM:SIC?} and
dowbte not by Godis healpe of his good and luckye procedinge , ther ys
as you knowe myche daunger and casualtye . And your selfe beynge a man
of manye yeres to whom God graunte many mo , so that yf yt shulde
chaunce you bothe to dye , as God forbyd , the gentylwoman shulde be
right meanely $furnyshed towardes any good staye of lyvynge , for the
kyngis $mayestye then havynge the wardshippe of the <em> young heyre
</em> ther shulde be almoste no remedye for her , ... for that , that
she ys all redy assured of , $whiche matter beynge consulted <P_77>
emonge my $counceyll $learned , and thoroly declared to me , I thought
... d in her behalfe right hartely to <em> request you to </em> extende
your thankefull favour towardes <em> the enlargynge </em> of her seyd
Joynture accordinge to suche ... as {to}_P Master John Beamounde one of
my seid <em> counceyll learned </em> this brynger shall reasonably move
$you ... , whom hyt may please you further to cry ... $in this behalfe
, whiche $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} to you no maner of charge nor yet the
forberynge of any peny of your revenewes or proffyttes .
WILLOUG,77.031.269

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Trustynge therfore that you wyll wey and consyder this sute in suche
sorte , your conformytye therin may declare your thanckefull harte and
zeale to my seid syster , and aunswhere to the good opynyon of
ffryndshippe whiche we bothe have conceyved in you accordingly .
WILLOUG,77.031.270

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
And thus fare you right hartely well . WILLOUG,77.031.271

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
From my lodge at Brodgate the xxvij=te= of Septembre .
WILLOUG,77.031.272

AUTHOR:HENRY_GREY:MALE:_:1517:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_031:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_OTHER
Youre lovyng cousyn Henry Dorssett . WILLOUG,77.031.273

<Q_WIL_A_1530S?_FN_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_032> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_BROTHER> <A-DOB_---> <R_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_BROTHER> <R-DOB_--->

<P_77>

{ED:NO._3._SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_JOHN_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Too the Right Wurshipffull and his lovyng brother Sir John Wyllughby
knyght delivered with $spede . WILLOUG,77.032.274

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wurshipffull Sir , after hertie commendacion , this is too assertane
you that I have caused your crosse and cope too be hade too the golde
smythes and weied and they doo offer ffor every unce of the coupe
iiijs. and ffor every unce of the crosse iijs. xd. , and more $will
$not {TEXT:wylnot} be hade , and ther is unnces of the coupe xxixti and
of the crosse cxxvti , wiche bothe too <P_78> gathers monteth too the
sum of xxixli. xvijs. ijd , WILLOUG,78.032.275

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ffor I doo assertayne you that the goldsmyth dyd take owte of knopes of
the crosse sertayne olde ledder and baggage stuffe that was not worth
on , halpeny that was of the weight of vj unces and more , ffor wiche
consideracion I wolde not sell nother your cupe nor your crosse ,
WILLOUG,78.032.276

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but it dothe and shall remayne unsolde untyll the next terme , and unto
suche tyme as I shall here ffarther ffrome you . WILLOUG,78.032.277

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Also Sir , I pray you be not displeased that I have not send you home
your coler and chene , WILLOUG,78.032.278

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
ffor I doo were your coler WILLOUG,78.032.279

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
and Henry Wyllughby dothe were your chene , WILLOUG,78.032.280

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
but both $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} saffe , God wylling , who kepe you in
wurshipe and helth too your hertys eysse . WILLOUG,78.032.281

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Wrytten at London on chyldermesse day . WILLOUG,78.032.282

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Your luffyng brother Edward Wyllugby . WILLOUG,78.032.283

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
And I pray you , Sir , too shew my brother Hugh that I have discharged
my said brother Hughes dette to Mastres Densalle , ffor the wiche I and
my cosyn $Thyrland was bounde too younge Holles . WILLOUG,78.032.284

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
Therffore my cosyn $Thyrland nede not too entrete master Hollys nor to
be in $his da ... as my brother Hugh dothe write too me .
WILLOUG,78.032.285

...

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
recevyd of Laceter ffrome <P_79> ..._X WILLOUG,79.032.286

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
RECIPIENT:JOHN_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:BROTHER:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_032:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:FAMILY_NUCLEAR
$Therfore {ED:?} I and my wyffe {TEXT:God_wylling_DELETED} intend to be
<em> at Middelton </em> at mydsomer next , God wyllyng , ... ffor the
bourde of your selff and your servauntes ... $pleasure when ye have
proved how you ... intretyd . WILLOUG,79.032.287

<Q_WIL_A_1530S?_T_EWILLOUGHBY> <L_WILLOUG_033> <A_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_THOMAS_DARBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_82>

{ED:NO._DRAFT_OF_A_LETTER_FROM_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY_TO_THOMAS_DARBY
}

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_033:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Master Derbye , I hertely commend me unto $you , WILLOUG,82.033.288

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_033:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and wheras you have sene and herd divers $persons afor you redy to
averre Robert Waltons sklanders $by {ED:?} hym spoken and utered to my
wyfis dishonestye $and {ED:?} myn wyche sklanders they wer redy to
justefye afor Waltons face . And also wheras you have harde and knowen
divers and many mo wytnes that dyd comme afore the kyngs commissioners
at Wudland alegyng Waltons evyll and sklanderous wordes azenst me , my
wyfe and many other persons , spoken , beyng his neghbors , wyche
maters so beyng aparant unto you and substancially proved , I had
thought that acordyng to your wordes and promes to me made
{TEXT:that_DELETED} in that behalfe that ze wold have surcesed in any
further medlyng wyth the said Walton or in beryng hym in hus lewdness ,
but now Sir , I do perceve aswell by your wordes spoken of late to my
wyfe <P_83> and on of my servantes at {TEXT:$Knolton_DELETED} Horton
thretyng us with my Lord Russell auctorite and yours , as by your
wordes , labor and paymentes of money by you made and done of late at
London in Waltons behalfe , that not only you do overpasse and breke
your said promes to me afortyme made , {TEXT:but_DELETED} not regardyng
the same partely to your dishonestie , but also you do prove yourselfe
a mentenor of the said Robert Walton contrary to the kings lawes .
Wherfor I do assure you that I do entend to have an accion azenst you
of mentenance onles that you do redresse your ... ult brevely and that
I may perceve by $your answer {TEXT:and_DELETED} or lettur that from
hensfurth $you wyll forsake and advoyde suche doyngs and beryngs as is
contrary to your honestye and also contrary to the kyngs laws .
WILLOUG,83.033.289

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_033:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
per me georgium in nomine dei Amen WILLOUG,83.033.290

AUTHOR:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_033:E1:1530S?:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
by me George Penruddoke . WILLOUG,83.033.291

<Q_WIL_A_1530S_T_TDARBY> <L_WILLOUG_034> <A_THOMAS_DARBY>
<A-GENDER_MALE> <A-REL_---> <A-DOB_---> <R_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY>
<R-GENDER_MALE> <R-REL_---> <R-DOB_--->

<P_83>

{ED:NO_6._THOMAS_DARBY}

{COM:TO_SIR_EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY}

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
To the right worshipfull Sir Edward Willoughby knight nowe being at
London this be yeven wyth spede . WILLOUG,83.034.292

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Right worshipfull Sir , this Candelmas day at after masse I receyved
your <P_84> lettre dated at London the xxviij=th= day of Januarie
conteynyng in effect your manasses in your accion of maintenance which
as ye write ye entend , God knoweth I can not tell wherfor , to take
against me . WILLOUG,84.034.293

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Ye write also ye be my assured frende if I lust , WILLOUG,84.034.294

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , because I $will $be {TEXT:wolbe} your lover whydder ye lust or
not , and not for feare of your manasses or any avaintage ye can take
upon me either-4 in that matier or any other , beying indede most lothe
to offende or gyve any man occasion of vexacion , I woll declare unto
you plainly the truthe of every thing without dissymulacion as nigh as
I can touchyng my hole purpose and doyng by you supposed to be
unlawfull . WILLOUG,84.034.295

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
First , after it pleased the kingis most graciose highnes to appointe
me to comme into thise parties which was afore I knewe ether you or
Walton , truth it was , I herde of many substanciall gentlemen that ye
wer mervelously geven to vexacion and trouble in the lawe , and in your
sutes were most extreme and unmercyfull , like as indede afterward ,
when it pleased you that we were acquainted and that ye vouched save to
here me , I told you plainly what I herde . WILLOUG,84.034.296

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so then beyng desirous of quietnes and right sory that any suche
contraversie shuld be amonges my neybours , beying moeved with love and
charitie , I dyd the best I could to have been a meane to sett the
matier at a staye betwen you and Walton , which Walton then indede , as
I remember , offred to have asked you forgyvenes in twoo parishe
churches so ferforth as he hadd offended you . WILLOUG,84.034.297

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And you wold not be contented therewith except he wold confesse that
which you {TEXT:was_DELETED} obiected against him , which to doo he
reafused saying $he {TEXT:be} {COM:SIC?} wold never confesse that he
never spake , but indede , seying there were dyverse of your servauntes
and tenauntes that bare witnes against hym , WILLOUG,84.034.298

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and also that I perceyved by you , ye wold , upon that his confession
orelles not , have remytted all the matier savyng the payment of xx
nobles , which xx nobles the judge hymself confessed unto <P_85> me the
officiall ought to have borne and payd because the faulte of the appele
was in hym and not in Walton , WILLOUG,85.034.299

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I dyd all that I could t ... Walton to have caused hym to confesse that
your $witnesses declared , which indede , Walton reafusyng I shewed
$you as I thought . WILLOUG,85.034.300

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as yet I doo thinke , that it were $well he shuld be made to knowe
, and submyt hymself {TEXT:as_DELETED} ... WILLOUG,85.034.301

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
{ED:THE_OF_THE_MANUSCRIPT_IS_DAMAGED_AND_WORDS_AT_THE_ENDS_OF_TH
E_LAST_FEW_LINES_ARE_MISSING.} as to reason right and good conscience
apperteyned , $against {ED:?} the which I never dyd , doo , or shall
entend any thyng , like as in dede at that tyme I shewed unto you ,
WILLOUG,85.034.302

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I wold never otherwise entreate you . WILLOUG,85.034.303

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so sens that tyme surely Walton never made me pryve of
{TEXT:my_DELETED} his further sute , but that at his last comming from
London , he shewed me , that the matier beying in examinacion afore
Master Doctor Belloyces , he lakking money to beare his charges was
inforced to leave his sute , and so come home , which thing at my goyng
to London for his excuse , he requyred me to shewe to Master Belloyces
, which indede than for forgetting I dyd not . WILLOUG,85.034.304

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And then in the meane tyme , I beyng absent , Walton came to my wif
WILLOUG,85.034.305

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and shewed her , that for xxs. percell of xls. which indede he
confessed he hadd promised to gyve to my ladye for her good will in his
holding , which alwais he confessed to pay as he might be hable , my
said lady hadd distressed twoo of his kye , and so wold not delyver
them , onless he wold poy xxviijs . Wherupon my wif sent oon of her
servauntes to my ladye beseching her to be so good as to take her xxs.
, and no more , which request taking no place , the hole xxviijs. as ,
I here , was payd , after the which at my commyng home , you beyng at
London , Waltons wife came to me and told me that my lady hadd
distressed twoo other of her husbandis kye for xxxijs. where
{TEXT:which_DELETED} as she affyrmed there was no suche duetie , which
<P_86> kie beying put in the pounde , which than was so foule that it
was like the cataill shuld perishe , she required me to speke to my
ladie , to know what her demaund was , like as indede when I spake with
my ladie , she delyvered me $a straite of your oun courte wherein
Walton was amercied xvjs. as appeareth at one courte for letting his
swyn to go at large where indede <paren> as I here </paren> the like
hath not ben seen to any other of your tenauntes . WILLOUG,86.034.306

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so then perceyving that twoo of the pore mans kyn was distressed
for xvjs. where one of them hadd been sufficient for the demaunde ,
specially one of them beying Melche , which was the best lyving of his
houshold , and also veray like that the matier was not good but done of
pure malice , indede in your absence , as I wold have done to yourself
, in cace I might have spoken with you , I first told your servaunt and
after my lady , how suche extremyties {TEXT:and_malice_DELETED} incace
they were complayned upon wold not be suffred , and indede wold cause
wise men the rather to thinke that your trouble and vexacion of Walton
shuld procede of extremytie and malice , and that you went not aboute
to wyn hym but utterly to lose , undowe , and cast him awey , which
could not be done onely unto hym but to his wif and childer , like as
indede I have herd reaported of dyverse honest gentlemen , that you say
, ye thinke ye $can $not {TEXT:cannot} doo a better good dede , nez
sacrafice to God , then to hange and utterly to undowe hym , which I
assure you if it be true , commeth of your evill spirite ,
WILLOUG,86.034.307

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for Almighty God , who is love and charitie , and biddeth us forgeve as
we wold be forgeven , truly deliteth in no {TEXT:bb_DELETED} blodye
sacrafices . WILLOUG,86.034.308

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And pitie it is that a gentleman of so auncient a blodd and house beyng
by his prince called to honour , namely , to sett rest and quyet
amonges his neybours and tenauntes shuld , in my opynyon , utter suche
cruell wordes , to make all men to see his {TEXT:iniquities_DELETED}
inquietnes and malice , that shuld be a light and example to other of
quyet and gentlenes , which , Sir , herd and considered , for the love
I bare unto you in advoyding <P_87> suche sklaunder as by suche meanes
might come unto you , I exhorted my lady not to use suche extremyte ,
but to respect the matier till your commyng home , when specially
because Walton said and promysed to me that he wold be ordred in every
thing as ye wold have hym , the man beyng wery of his lif , and in dede
, redye to flye the cuntree for suche and other like extremyties shewed
unto hym by your servaunt , who <paren> he beying at his plough
</paren> hath manassed , threteaned and called all evill names that can
be imagined , pyking dailly querelles against hym , surely charitie
movyng me , myn entent was ones againe , if it had ben my chaunce to
have mett with you , to have eftsones ben a suter for Walton upon his
said promyse and submission to your oun charitable correccion , that
the man might be won , and not lost , not for his oun sake onely , but
for his houshold , specially considering that incace there be cause or
no cause , if the man be undown by you , as it appeareth ye entend to
doo without mercy , surely the contrey will note rigour in you and
thinke that it is not mete for suche a gentleman called to honour , to
execute all his power for the undowyng of suche a pore wreche beyng his
$tenaunt , as surely what soever he be that geveth you suche $counsaill
is not in myn opynyon , either your lover or frend $if <paren> saving
your worshyp </paren> ye might otherwise wyn hym by my $meanes .
WILLOUG,87.034.309

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Sir , if ye were myn oun fader , in this cace I wold be thus plaine
with you , as my conscience indede byndeth me . WILLOUG,87.034.310

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
I {TEXT:trus_DELETED} trust ye woll take it in good parte as I meane it
, and remember that we be all synners , WILLOUG,87.034.311

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and what mervaile is it that we be sklaundered when we delite in
sklaundering of our selfes . WILLOUG,87.034.312

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
He that wold have a good name may not make bost of his synnes ,
WILLOUG,87.034.313

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for if he doo <paren> if men say or thinke evill upon hym , who hymself
indede geveth the occasion </paren> reason wold , he shuld not be
extreme in seking revengement , and to destroye a man upon that
occasion which is geven by hymself . WILLOUG,87.034.314

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Surely the offence to hym so doyng is greate . WILLOUG,87.034.315

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Lett us feare the rightwisnes of Almighty God who specially biddeth us
to be <P_88> mercifull . WILLOUG,88.034.316

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as touchyng my speaking of Waltons matier in the courte of the
Arches at London , Walton at my last goyng doun delyvered to my man a
marke , to delyver to his proctour a corone , wherof being bothe good
gold and keping weight according to the kingis proclamacion , the same
proctour as it manifestly appeared to put the pore man to an afterdeale
reafusing , my man shewed me of the matier . WILLOUG,88.034.317

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And so within ij dais after , having a sute to your oun doctour , I can
not tell his name who I founde in the courte , for a dispensacion for a
kynneswoman of my wifes , whereby I hadd occasion to speke of the
corone which then I hadd not aboute me , WILLOUG,88.034.318

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and beying the peremptor the day that Walton shuld have ben condempned
incace the money hadd not ben payd , and so perceyving thextremytie of
the proctour reafusyng the kingis lawfull coign contrary to the kingis
proclamacion , I laide a gage for the money , WILLOUG,88.034.319

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and afterwardes in redeamyng of my gage , I caused the proctour by
vertue of the kingis proclamacion in open courte to take the same
corone , which cace was not Waltons cace but the kingis cace .
WILLOUG,88.034.320

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And all indede was that I could not abide suche unlawfull procedinges
of cormorauntes against the smale and pore , and specially that I wold
have ben lothe that {TEXT:upon_DELETED} by suche crueltie
{TEXT:shuld_DELETED} any man shuld be so extremely handled .
WILLOUG,88.034.321

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Syr , I beseche you as a pore man may , seke suche counsaill as may
quiet your conscience and to cast up the disturbatours of the same ,
and so to lyve in rest and peax amonges your neybours , which rest if
ye hadd ones assaid a quarter of the tyme that ye have ben used to the
countrary in the lawe , I am sure ye wold not sell it , for all the
lawe in the Arches or Westminster Hall , where they be that rather woll
seke to gett your money and encouruge you for {TEXT:your_DELETED}
proffit to be revenged to the symylytude of the evill spirite than to
the contrary of the good . WILLOUG,88.034.322

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And as touchyng my self , I woll not by my good will offend you ner non
other . WILLOUG,88.034.323

<P_89>

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Indede it was shewed me at my commyng home , ye were dyverse tymes at
my house allegyng matiers to sundry of my folkes which afore your face
, the parties being called , was proved untrue . WILLOUG,89.034.324

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
If you be so faine to have a matier against me ye may begyn when ye
woll , WILLOUG,89.034.325

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I doubte not but myn entent and doynges beyng as they be bothe-2
anempst you and all other , I $shall $be {TEXT:shalbe} with honestie
delyvered to the shame of suche as maliciously without cause wold
{ED:TH.CRIBE_WROTE_"WOLE"_AND_THEN_CHANGED_THE_FINAL_"E"_TO_A_" D"}
appeare the same myn honestie . WILLOUG,89.034.326

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
And therefore I will not otherwise entreate you whither you lust to be
my frende or my foo , WILLOUG,89.034.327

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
for I had lever to have an open ffoo then a familier enemye ,
{TEXT:ore}_CONJ or oon that after suche sorte woll pike matiers
specially pretending frendship . WILLOUG,89.034.328

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
Eftsones I beseche you to take counsaill of peasible and godly
counsaillours , and not of disturbatours , whereof to here I $shall $be
{TEXT:shalbe} as gladd as any frende you have , Almighty God I take to
witnes , WILLOUG,89.034.329

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
and the Holy Goost be your guyde . WILLOUG,89.034.330

AUTHOR:THOMAS_DARBY:MALE:_:_:_
RECIPIENT:EDWARD_WILLOUGHBY:MALE:_:_:_
LETTER:WILLOUG_034:E1:1530S:AUTOGRAPH:OTHER
From Horton the morrow after candelmas day , by Your lover lust or lust
not , Thomas Derbye . WILLOUG,89.034.331
